The new Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Major General Farouk Yahaya has unveiled his vision for the Nigeria Army, stating that his mission is to have a professional army. He said his vision is; ”A Professional Nigerian Army Ready To Accomplish Assigned Missions Within A Joint Environment In Defence of Nigeria.” General Yahaya stated this in his median meeting in Abuja with Principal Staff Officers, Corps Commanders, General Officers Commanding, Operational Commanders, Directors and Heads of various Nigerian Army establishments. The new COAS had assumed duty on May 28, after his appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari on May 27. He replaced late General Ibrahim Attahiru who died in a plane crash along with ten other officers on May 21 in Kaduna. He described the late Attahiru as a big brother, a brilliant officer, a mentor, and a guardian whose exemplary leadership in his brief stay in office, he would build on. General Yahaya said his energy will be channeled towards defeating all security challenges presently confronting the Nigerian Nation , working in collaboration with sister services and other security agencies. He also stated that he will command the Nigerian Army to win all other land battles in defence of the territorial integrity of Nigeria, protect her national interests and accomplish assigned tasks in aid of civil authority among other responsibilities. The new COAS restated Nigerian Army unalloyed commitment and loyalty to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces and President, Muhammadu Buhari and assured all officers and men that he will provide an exemplary and professional leadership that would serve as a rallying point for all. “The NA under my command will discharge its duties with diligence, commitment and loyalty to the President Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, President Mohammadu Buhari’’ he said. General Yahaya took over the leadership of the Nigerian army just as its strength was boasted with an additional 6,400 soldiers who passed out from Zaria depot. Speaking on his behalf during the passing out of 80 regular recruit intake at the Depot Nigeria Army Zaria, General Officer Commanding 1 Division Nigeria Army, Kaduna Major General Danjumma Ali-Keffi, said, “it is noteworthy that as you pass out today, the strength of Nigeria army has been enhanced by 6,400 able-bodied men and women. He observed that the military has been battling various security challenges including Boko Haram terrorists, armed bandits, kidnappers, the proscribed IPOB and other criminal elements besides other assignments. He assured the public that the Nigerian Army “will not rest on our oars until this country is safe for all of us.” He advised the new soldiers to abide by their oath of allegiance.