By Bauchi Luka, Bauchi A Socio- cultural organization known as Zaar Development Association (ZDA) has faulted the recent call by former Senator, Adamu Ibrahim Gumba that the local government headquarters of Tafawa Balewa be relocated to Zwall from Bununu instead of Tafawa Balewa town where it was constitutionally sited since its creation in 1976. The ZDA while faulting the former Senator representing Bauchi South at the red chamber over the comment appealed to the National Assembly to while reviewing the 1999 constitution, consider bringing back to Tafawa Balewa town, the headquarters of the Local government instead of taking it somewhere again. Addressing a press conference Tuesday, the National Secretary of the association, Mr. Adamu Bagudu said that the Zaar community is dissociating itself from the recent comment of the former Senator at the venue of the public hearing conducted by senate committee for 1999 constitution in Bauchi. Bagudu noted that it was not wrong for the former Senator to call for the creation of Bula Local government out of Tafawa Balewa, but that the call for the relocation of the affected LG headquarters to Zwall was not proper. The ZDA appealed to the senate committee on the 1999 constitution review not to consider the submission made by the former Senator in the proposed Constitution but rather, be brought back from Bununu town to its original place in Tafawa Balewa town. Bagudu said if the reason for the relocation was basically on issues of misunderstanding among residents in the town, now that peace has returned for some years and the inhabitants are leaving in peace with one another, the local government headquarters should be returned. “Tafawa Balewa local government was created in 1976 by the federal government and has been existing as such since then but its headquarters was subsequently relocated in 2012 by the Bauchi state government against the constitutional provision which recognizes its headquarters in Tafawa Balewa town”. “It was created as a result of fulfilling the requirement of bringing a local government area along with others and still had an additional qualification of being what it is”. the body said. It can be recalled that Tafawa Balewa local government headquarters was moved by the state assembly to Bununu town during Governor Isah Yuguda’s administration as a result of ethnic clashes.