By Tom Okpe Governors on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) under the aegis of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) stated on Thursday that the tentative date of the party national convention will be fixed by the president Muhammadu Buhari. The Governors indicated that there is a proposal of the convention on Mr President’s table and the moment he signs, the national Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, (CECPC) led by Mallam Mai Mala Buni will announce the date. PGF also passed a vote of confidence on the Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Buni of Yobe state and his caretaker committee members for their outstanding performance in rebuilding the party. The governors took the decision at a meeting in Abuja, Wednesday, presided over by its Chairman and Governor of Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu. They commended Governor Buni for providing excellent leadership to the party at the most critical period. Recall that the CECPC of the party under the leadership of Gov Buni was put in place to strengthen the ruling party in the face of some challenges that previously confronted the party. Speaking with newsmen after the meeting at the Kebbi State House, Abuja; Chairman Alhaji Bagudu said: “The vote of confidence is imperative to encourage the leadership of the party, to continue its strides in piloting its affairs to the next level. “The Yobe state Governor and his CECPC members have succeeded in attracting serving and former Governors, Senators, House of Representatives members as well as other notable opposition figures to the party. “They have also helped in stabilizing the APC and midwife a successful membership drive to make the party the biggest in Africa.” He noted that the Progressive Governors’ met and reviewed a number of issues relating to the assignments given to committee members which participated in party affairs, national security and economy. “We started by commending the committee we assigned with the responsibility of navigating on our behalf on the autonomy for legislature and judiciary. “The forum commended the Committee, it’s work and outcome. We want to reinstate that as a forum we are committed to it’s implementation as agreed with all “We also took report from the National Chairman of the Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State and we commended the Caretaker Committee under his able leadrship for all the successes recorded by the party, particularly that on daily bases people are joining the party. “Even in the last few months, we had former Gov Gbenga Daniel, the governors of Ebonyi and Cross River States, former Speaker, members of the National and State Assemblies, many illustrious citizens of Nigeria and we are still counting. “This is a testament to the fact that APC is Nigeria’s preferred party. It is the party Nigerians will continue to aspire to and continue to be proud of. READ ALSO: There’s Still A Lot Of Work To Be Done, Buhari Tells Nigerian Troops In Borno “We also appreciate the successes recorded despite constraints of limited economy. We equally discussed the time table for our congresses and we reivewed the security situation and acknowledged some of the challenges as well as the successes achieved, acknowledging constraints of the economy and successes that are being achieved.” Alhaji Bagudu also stated that President Buhari’s recent visit Lagos to commission the Lagos/Ibadan railway, the Deep Sea Project and other items provided by Lagos State Governor to enhance the security of Lagos State is a pointer to the hard work of the party and the forum. “Just yesterday, (Tuesday) Mr. President also commissioned the backbone of the 7th Strand of the NLNG. We believe these are among many other legacy projects that will continue to bring more income for the country. “We considered the timetable and we have made some inputs particularly to comply with the Electoral Law and the party’s constitution. “Remember, we, (PGF) are just one organ of the party (though a very important organ) but we advised the Caretaker Committee to ensure that they consult with all, so that at the end of the day, the final output will be such that all party members will be happy. “There is a proposal before Mr. President and once he approves it, the National Caretaker Committee will announce the date,” Bagudu stated.