*Appoints Amina Mohammed as UN deputy secretary-general for second term António Guterres has been re-appointed for a second term as UN Secretary-General and has pledged as his priority, continual help to the world toward charting a course out of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Guterres, whose first five-year term began on Januart 1, 2017 and ends on December 31, 2021, was the sole candidate from the UN’s 193 member states to vie for the top job. He was nominated by his homeland, Portugal, and appointed by acclamation of the General Assembly, following prior endorsement by the UN Security Council for a second term that runs from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2026. Taking the oath of office in the General Assembly Hall, UN headquarters on Friday, Guterres said he was aware of the immense responsibilities bestowed on him at this critical moment in history. “We are truly at a crossroads, with consequential choices before us; paradigms are shifting, old orthodoxies are being flipped. “We are writing our own history with the choices we make right now. “It can go either way: breakdown and perpetual crisis or breakthrough and prospect of a greener, safer and better future for all. There are reasons to be hopeful,” he said. Speaking in a mix of English, French, and Spanish – three of the UN’s six official languages – Guterres detailed how COVID-19 had taken lives and livelihoods, while exposing inequalities. “At the same time, countries are confronting challenges such as climate change and biodiversity loss,’’ he said. The secretary-general emphasised that the way out of the pandemic, and the way to ensure socio-economic recovery, should occur on a much more equitable basis, going forward. “Our greatest challenge – which is at the same time our greatest opportunity – is to use this crisis to turn the tide, pivot towards a world that learns lessons. “Also to promote a just, green and sustainable recovery and show the way via increased and effective international cooperation to address global issues,” he added. With the way forward filled with colossal tasks, the secretary-general expressed confidence that they could be completed successfully, partly due to the incredible commitment of UN staff across the world. “Although the world has changed a lot, the UN’s promises remain constant, but countries have to work together in entirely new ways to keep them alive.’’ He called for seizing momentum for transformation, while also stressing the need to bring other voices to the table, including civil society, the private sector and youth. “Ultimately, this transformation has to do with solidarity and equality. “But equity needs to start now: vaccines need to be available for everyone everywhere and we must create the conditions for sustainable and inclusive recovery both in the developed and developing world. “And there is still a long way to go,” Guterres said. The secretary-general warned that countries must overcome their current “trust deficit” if this is to be achieved. “In particular, we need to do everything we can to overcome current geostrategic divides and dysfunctional power relations; there are too many asymmetries and paradoxes and they need to be addressed head-on. “We also need to be aware of how power plays out in today’s world when it comes to the distribution of resources and technology,” the UN chief said. Guterres vowed to use his second term to work towards ensuring the blossoming of trust between and among nations and to engage in confidence building. Meanwhile, António Guterres, secretary-general of the United Nations (UN), has asked Amina Mohammed to serve as deputy secretary-general for a second term. Speaking with journalists after taking the oath of office for a second term, Guterres said he had extended an offer to Mohammed to continue in office. “After being elected, I have the pleasure to invite the deputy secretary-general to remain in my second mandate and I hope she will accept,” he said. Mohammed, who was standing behind Guterres at the press briefing, responded with the comment “absolute honour”. Before her appointment in 2017, she was Nigeria’s minister of environment under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. She had also served as the special adviser to Ban Ki-moon on post-2015 development planning, which focused on the 2030 agenda for sustainable development goals