Idibia Gabriel, Kaduna Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) has said that the deplorable state of the nation was the consequence of bad governance and misrule of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). PRP accused APC of surviving by encouraging divisive conflicts, endemic corruption, looting of state resources and other vices. The party made the assertions in a communique issued Monday at the end of its 2nd national delegates conference held in Zaria, Kaduna State between 29th and 31st May, 2021. The communique, issued after the conference attended by delegates from 36 states and Abuja, stated that the nation was sinking into deepening social and economic crises that has sentenced a majority of Nigerians to poverty and all manner of material and physical deprivation. The communique signed by Comrade Kabir Ali Nakande, the senior special assistant on media and public affairs to its interim Chairman, reaffirmed the commitment and dedication of the PRP to serve as a party leading the struggle of the ordinary poor and oppressed people of Nigeria for salvation from the exploitative and oppressive conditions under which they’ve led over the years. Participants resolved that the Federal Republic of Nigeria is at a cross road of either remaining under the grip of the unpatriotic, corrupt and retrogressive forces that have been responsible for ruining the social, economic and political fortunes. Besides, they however noted that there’s potentials of Nigeria pushing the country to the Precipice of national disintegration or teaming up with the progressive elements in the struggle to set the country free from strongholds of the politicalopportunists who have nearly run the nation aground. “That the two parties that have successfully ruled Nigeria under the 4th Republic, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are conglomeration of retrogressive elements united by the collective pursuit of self- serving power and illegally acquired wealth thereby continuously raping state resources. “In other words, APC is not fundamentally different from PDP in the self-serving manner they dominate the nation’s political system. “The PRP is thus a viable alternative to the Ideologically barren politicians occupying state power in Nigeria. “PRP is the only ideologically oriented political party that is built on a clearly defined foundation of leading the country along the path of independent development, unity, nation-building and the quest for the common prosperity of all Nigerians as well as the common protection of their civil, human and citizenship rights in accordance with our Constitution.” The party therefore called on all Nigerians, regardless of ethnic, religious or geo-political differences to unite behind the PRP in order to put Nigeria on the path to regaining its lost glory, adding, “PRP, thus is the viable alternative as Nigeria inches closer to 2023 Presidential and General Elections.