Following Twitter’s decision to delete President Muhammadu Buhari’s tweet referencing the civil war, the Federal Government said it is investigating the social media giant’s operations. “Many of those misbehaving today are too young to be aware of the havoc and loss of lives that occurred during the Nigerian Civil War,” Buhari said in a series of tweets on his verified Twitter handle, @Mbuhari. Those of us who spent 30 months in the fields and lived through the conflict will speak to them in their own language.” Twitter removed the tweet after receiving many complaints, noting, “This Tweet violated the Twitter Rules.” Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture, reacted to the news by accusing Twitter of discrimination. According to Mohammed, Twitter has casually disregarded inciting posts by Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), and his associates. He claimed Twitter disregarded Kalu’s comments encouraging the assassination of police officers, as well as the display of similar biases at the ENDSARS protest, which saw government and private property plundered and set ablaze, claiming it was a violation of human rights. Mohammed, who wondered why the organization now found President Buhari’s tweet offensive, said Twitter’s role is suspect and Nigeria will not be fooled. He said: “Twitter may have its own rules, it’s not the universal rule. If Mr. President, anywhere in the world feels very bad and concern about a situation, he is free to express such views. Now, we should stop comparing apples with oranges. If an organisation is proscribed, it is different from any other which is not proscribed. “Two, any organisation that gives directives to its members, to attack police stations, to kill policemen, to attack correctional centres, to kill warders, and you are now saying that Mr. President does not have the right to express his dismay and anger about that? Are we the ones guilty of double standards? I don’t see anywhere in the world where an organisation, a person will stay somewhere outside Nigeria, and will direct his members to attack the symbols of authority, the police, the military, especially when that organisation has been proscribed. By whatever name, you can’t justify giving orders to kill policemen or to kill anybody you do not agree with.”