*Gunmen kill PDP youth leader in Imo *Governor, PDP react Tunde Opalana, Abuja and Kajo Martins, Makurdi The high level insecurity in the country was further heightened on Wednesday with the continuous killings across the various regions of Nigeria. In Jos, the Plateau State capital, assassins killed the Special Adviser to the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom on Security, Christopher Dega, while in Imo State, a youth leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Kenneth Amukamara was killed by unidentified gunmen. Dega, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police Christopher Dega was fatally shot by gunmen. According to reports, the retired AIG was shot in the chest several times and bled to death. He had a brilliant career in the Nigerian Police Force and was two times commissioner of Police (Borno and Edo States). Mr. Dega is survived by his wife Kashimana and children. Meanwhile, the police have announced that some suspects in the gruesome assassination of Dega have been arrested. According to a statement released by the Plateau State Command, signed by its Public Relations Officer, Ubah Ogaba, a massive investigation has been launched into the incident. “The Plateau State Police Command on a sad note received an ugly report of the death of AIG Christopher Dega (Rtd). On 31/05/2021 at about 2030hrs, AIG Christopher Dega (Rtd) was shot dead by three yet to be identified gunmen in an isolated restaurant at Bukuru, Jos. “From the investigation so far, it appeared that he was trailed and shot. He arrived at Jos from Makurdi on the same date at about 1930hrs. Some suspects have been arrested. Meanwhile, the investigation is ongoing.” In Imo, Amukamara, the PDP youth leader in Oru-East Local Government Area of the state was assassinated by the gunmen on Monday night in Umuokwe village. They also burnt down his house and car during the attack, it was gathered. The gruesome murder was confirmed by the Imo State PDP youth Leader, Greg Nwadike. He wrote: “Finally confirming the assassination of the PDP LGA Youth Leader of Oru-East LGA, Imo State, Comrade Kenneth Amukamara.” “He was assassinated Monday night at his home in Awo-Omamma by assailants and his house with his brother said to have been set ablaze. Sketchy information available say about two other members of his family were also killed.” Reacting to the killing of his aide, Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom condemned the assassination describing it as a huge blow to his administration and the entire state. The Governor while speaking to journalists on Wednesday at Benue Peoples House, Makurdi, lamented that the retired AIG was very active even in retirement, saying it was painful that he was gunned down in such a gruesome manner. “Retired AIG Dega served with me here and this is someone who has retired but is not tired and was very active. So for him to have been murdered in the manner they did, a retired AIG gunned down. This is very sad,” Governor Ortom stated. He stressed that insecurity had bedeviled the North East, North West and North Central, South South, South East, South West, and called on security agencies to find killers of his aide. Governor Ortom sympathized with the family, friends and former colleagues of the deceased and prayed God to grant him eternal rest. It will be recalled that the deceased was shot and killed in Jos the Plateau State Capital on Tuesday even as sources said he was shot in the chest several times by gunmen. Until his death AIG Dega was said have a brilliant career in the Nigerian Police Force and was two times commissioner of Police in Borno and Edo States respectively and hails from Katsina Ala local government area of Benue state . Expressing alarm by the gruesome murder of the Senior Special Adviser on Security to Governor Ortom, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it totally condemned the killing by unknown gunmen in Jos, Plateau State capital. A statement from the office of the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan on Wednesday said “the PDP, in very strong terms, condemns the murder of AIG Dega (rtd), describing it as barbaric as well as ominous, given the recent attempts on the life of Governor Ortom by terrorists and bandits, marauding various parts of Benue state”. The party described the slain Dega as a very patriotic Nigerian and dutiful aide, who gave his all in the service of our dear fatherland and his home state, Benue. The PDP, therefore charged the police to immediately go into action and follow the leads to apprehend and bring the assailants and their backers to justice. The party also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to end his lethargic approach to security matters and take decisive steps to end the activities of terrorists, bandits and vandals, who have been emboldened by his administration’s body language and overt failure. The PDP commiserates with Governor Ortom, the Dega family as well as the government and people of Benue state and prayed God to give all the fortitude to bear this this sad episode in Nigeria’s national life.