By Tom Okpe A group, APC Legacy Awareness & Campaign, (APC-LAC) has stated that the All Progressives Congress, (APC) led by President Muhammadu Buhari is laying solid foundation for the country’s greatness. It also said since the administration assumed office six years ago, it has boldly pursued reforms aimed at laying a solid and sustainable foundation for the greatness of Nigeria. In a press statement on Wednesday signed by its officials, Barr Ismail Ahmed, Lanre Issa-Onilu Tolu Ogunlesi and Salihu Moh. Lukman said lots of investments made today should have been done long before now. “Developing Nigeria’s Infrastructure, in Rail, Roads, Ports, Power: More road and rail infrastructure are being built, or completed since 2015, than in the sixteen years between 1999 and 2015. “Several landmark infrastructure initiatives are being implemented by the Buhari Administration, from the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) to the Infrastructure Company (InfraCo), the Highway Development Maintenance Initiative (HDMI), the Sovereign Sukuk Bonds (that have collectively raised close to a billion dollars), and the Infrastructure Tax Credit Scheme. “All of these are unprecedented efforts in developing and upgrading national infrastructure. READ ALSO: ‘Any Army sent to South-East will die there’ – Nnamdi Kanu reacts to Buhari’s speech “Equally unparalleled is President Buhari’s commitment to completing abandoned and unfinished projects inherited from previous administrations,” the group said. According to the group, achieving agricultural self-sufficiency through landmark initiatives like the Anchor Borrowers Programme and the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative, entrenching technology in Government Processes and Service Delivery, creating the first truly national Social Safety Net in the history of Nigeria, enabling the Private Sector, governance reforms, a new paradigm for Federal-State Relations,  rebuilding National Security Capacity and unprecedented investments in military hardware are laudable government policies that previous government never thought of or implemented. “Presidential Assent to the new Police Act, in which Community Policing has been enshrined, Establishment of the Police Trust Fund to finance training, logistics and welfare Investment in technology-aided policing of land and maritime environments. “Nigeria Police National Command and Control Centre (NPF-C4i); Nigeria Police Crime and Incident Data Base (NPC & IDB); NIMASA’s Deep Blue Project; West African Police Information System (WAPIS) Data Collection and Recording (DACORE) Centre in partnership with INTERPOL, Nigerian Immigration Service Technology Center, and many others. “We firmly believe that these efforts will begin to yield fruit in the months and years ahead.” Building Bilateral Partnerships and Advancing Nigeria’s Foreign Policy Interests the group stressed is another long term investment the country will benefit from, years to come, adding that “criticisms and opposition are integral requirements of democracy. “If PDP and its leaders want to join in criticising and opposing the APC, they must do so by presenting to Nigerians what they did comparatively during their 16-year stewardship.”