By Tom Okpe As the National Constitution Review hearing organised by the House of Representatives kicks off in the six geo-political zones of the country on Tuesday, Local government autonomy, states and local government creation fiscal federalism and others takes center stage of the debate. At the Bauchi zone comprising of Bauchi, Yobe and Borno States, the committee led by Aminu Suleiman heard from Governor Bala Mohammed, representatives of Yobe and Borno States and other stakeholders debated on fiscal federalism, Local Government autonomy, state police, financial independence for the judiciary and state legislatures to be included in the 1999 constitution as amended. In his remarks, stressing why Katagum State should be created, former Head of Service, (HoS), Alhaji Ahmed Yayale said with land mass of 49, 49,919 square kilometers and population of about 10 million, should be splited. “We are in support of Federal structure in governance and power devolution, Bauchi is in full support of the existing arrangement comprising federal, state and local government. “That arrangement should be maintained in the constitution.The constitution should be amended to give more powers to those tiers with concomitant review of revenue allocation formula to make more funds available to the states and LGs to discharge their additional responsibilities given to them. “The constitution should be amended to allow for the establishment of state police since the states are in autonomous powers, they should have agencies to execute powers vested in them by the constitution. “Under the present arrangement, governors do not have powers to direct commissioners, police in their respective states. Bauchi state recommend that appropriate legal frameworks be put in place to allay the fears of likely abuse of the state police by state governors. “In order to address this unjust and unfair treatment, we as a state and a people, know, we have the respect and sympathy for corporate Nigerians, Katagum state should be created out of Bauchi, and additional LGs should also, be created so that we can be at par with other states that are having more LGs than us,” Yayale noted. The elder statesman also agitated for constitutional role for traditional rulers saying, “as custodians of our culture and traditions, they have not been recognized by the 1999 constitution.” He said that traditional rulers have been involved in the maintenance of law and order in their respective domains adding that “traditional rulers have the capacity to help the government in her quest to foster development because when colonial masters came, they used them to rule indirectly,” decrying that the traditional institution has been left to suffer redundancy despite their strategic role in their respective domains. Chairman, House of Representatives committee on review of the Constitution, Bauchi zone, Aminu Sulaiman in his earlier remarks noted said areas that needs attention in the review of the 1999 constitution includes, defence and security, land use act, unity of Nigeria, devolution of power, derivation and revenue sharing, state police, local governments autonomy, role of traditional rulers among others. He commended the support of Governor Bala Mohammed to the committee which he said will go a long way in ensuring success of the assignment. The speaker, Bauchi State House of Assemblycommends the national assembly for taking the bull by the horns to alter the constitution. He noted that people are aware that the constitution needs to be altered, assuring that houses of assembly members across the country will give them all the needed support. States and Local Governments agitated for are, Katagum from old Bauchi, Savanah from old Borno State, Bura LG from old Ningi in Bauchi State, Fune LG from old Jajere and a new Jajere local government in Yobe State. Members of the Committee are Dr Aminu Suleiman representing Fagge constituency, Kano, who is the Chairman, Auwal Jatau Mohammed from Bauchi, Afe Oberuakpefe from Delta, Olatunbosun Olajide Boladele from Oyo and Bio Omar Mohammed from Kwara State.