By Our Reporters Although all mortals face death at the the end of their sojourn on earth, the passage of black Africa’s arguably most prominent televangelist and philanthropist, Prophet Temitope Balogun, shocked the world and threw multitudes into mourning and wailing. Only on Saturday, TBJoshua, as he was popularly called, memorably remarked: “Time for everything – time to come here for prayer and time to return home after the service.’’ He spoke during the Emmanuel TV Partners Meeting, perhaps his parting words. Joshua, pastor and founder of The Synagogue, Church of All Nations (SCOAN) passed on at the age of 57.The actual cause of death had yet to be made known yesterday. Joshua was one of the most controversial and “enigmatic’’ Nigerian pastors of all time, especially with his preaching style and records of miracles. Joshua, born on June 12, 1963 in Ondo State, Nigeria, reportedly stayed 15 months in his mother’s womb before he was born. According to the SCOAN website, Joshua attended St. Stephen’s Anglican Primary School, Ikare-Akoko, Ondo State, 1971-1977. He had only one year of secondary education before he left to work in a poultry farm. While in school, he was known as ‘small pastor’ because of his love for the scriptures and gift to predict things that would happen in his community; he was also said to have been the leader of the ‘Scripture Union’ while in school. He taught children at evening classes and done some menial jobs before he had a revelation to set up a ministry while on a 40-day fast. In 1987, Joshua founded SCOAN under the bridge that links Ejigbo and Egbe in Lagos State with just a few members. The church later grew to have large congregations within and outside Nigeria, especially other parts of Africa and Latin America. He later established the Emmanuel TV station from Lagos which has wide viewership especially as it is on cable television. Joshua was a renowned generous philanthropist, particularly noted for helping the needy and sponsoring persons. ‘My People FC’, a football club he started in 2009, was part of his efforts to help the youth and two members of the team, Sani Emmanuel and Ogenyi Onazi, played for the Nigerian Golden Eaglets in the 2009 FIFA U-17 World Cup. Also, three players of the club were sponsored abroad to play professional football in Sweden. WBO International Light Middleweight boxing champion King Davidson Emenogu, had said that Joshua financially supported him throughout his career. A man of many clouts, Forbes in 2011 wrote that Joshua was the third-richest pastor in Nigeria with an estimated net worth of between $10 million and $15 million. He was so popular that Wikipedia documented his social media presence to be massive with no fewer than 3.5 million fans on Facebook. “His YouTube channel, Emmanuel TV, has over one million subscribers. “He was the world’s most viewed Christian ministry on the platform before it was suspended. “He was described as the “Oprah of Evangelism” and “YouTube’s most popular Pastor.” Like many influential men, Joshua was not without controversies. On Sept, 12, 2014, a guesthouse collapsed in the SCOAN’s premises in Lagos, killing no fewer than 115 people. Speculations continued to trail the circumstances that led to the collapse, with a former Nigerian Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, alleging that “Nigeria’s intelligence agencies ‘blew up’ the building’’. Also, his relationship with other clerics was not smooth. Some also questioned the miracles that occurred in his church. Yet, Joshua was unperturbed and in a 2006 book, “The Mirror,” he said: “Whatever I am today is a product of the conviction that victory through Christ Jesus is victory indeed. The rest is history.” Joshua made impact in education, healthcare, peace and reconciliation, among others. A Forbes blogger said that it was estimated that Joshua spent $20 million on “education, healthcare and rehabilitation programmes for former Niger Delta militants.” He received repentant persons who cut across all walks of life including their and rehabilitation and ‘deliverance’. SCOAN has a scholarship programme that sponsors many pupils and students in primary, secondary and even tertiary institutions. In 2012, it was widely reported that Joshua sponsored a Nigerian student doing a PhD in the United Kingdom.His worldwide humanitarian relief involvement was outstanding and included Joshua’s efforts during the 2010 Haiti earthquake, and April 2016 in Ecuador, where he gave aid worth over $500,000. In Ecuador, he funded the rebuilding of a rural school destroyed during the earthquake. Joshua sent a team of medical personnel and humanitarian workers to the affected area in Haiti and instituted a field hospital called ‘Clinique Emmanuel’. He also supported several groups of Nigerian returnees to resettle in the country, following their attempt to travel illegally to Europe. One of his most significant reconciliatory efforts was his involvement in the meeting of the family of the late President of Liberia, Samuel Doe, with the former warlord Yormie Johnson, who was responsible for the tiny country’s leader’s death. The Nigerian government, in recognition of his humanitarian activities, gave him a National Honour, Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic (OFR) in 2008. The United Nations also gave him a letter of appreciation. Arewa Youth Forum, a predominantly Muslim organisation, recognised him as Ambassador of Peace and ZAKA, Israel’s primary rescue and recovery voluntary service, gave him an ‘award of excellence.’ The eminent clergyman was married to Evelyn Joshua and had three children. Joshua’s last words in public were: “Watch and pray.” “One life for Christ is all we have; one life for Christ is so dear.” Mr Kunle Olowoopejo, the Executive Chairman, Egbe-Idimu Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Lagos where SCOAN’s headquarters stands, described Joshua as a complete definition of what humanity should be. According to him, he was generous and no matter your colour, ethnicity, tribe, language or religion, his hands of fellowship has no bound and that’s why both young and old keep echoing “Alaanu Mekunnu lo.” According to The Synagogue, Joshua left a legacy of service to and sacrifice for God’s Kingdom which will continue to live on for generations yet unborn.