Ebere Chibuzor Hospitality stakeholders and business owners in the the country’s tourism industry have expressed sadness over the sudden passing of the founder, of The Synagogue Church Of All Nation (SCOAN). They described the death as a great oss to the industry, Lagos State, Nigeria and Africa. According to them, no individual or group has matched his contributions to religious tourism, which has positively impacted the nation, the downtrodden, his followers and Africa like him. Findings by the Daily Times revealed that about 100 medium and small hotels are located in Ikotun community where the church is and depend on patronages from worshippers and tourists to the church. Manager, Victoria Continental Hotel, Michael Akaniyene said: “Hospital industry thrives here, especially on weekends. But with his death, we might not start seeing the impact now because the church service has not resumed fully because of COVID-19. Again, more hotels are springing up hoping that after COVID-19 business will boom again. Unfortunately, his death will cause huge setback to hotel owners because the church may no longer receive the large size of visitors and worshippers as before. ‘’The church’s visitors and worshippers are our major customers. Also, taxi operators are also connected to our business. Bureau de change operators too will not be left out of the impact. His death means a lot to the people, especially the widows and orphans who he always assist. And because of his presence here in Ikotun axis, the residents enjoy some level of power supply. He even donated a generator to the community recently.” A supervisor at the Globus Supermarket, Mr. Christopher Ehijele, noted that the outfit recorded very low sales last Sunday, following the sad news of Joshua’s death. He said many people rushed to the church instead of coming to buy things from the supermarket. “Unfortunately, because of the lock down, foreigners have not been attending the church which has affected our sales. It is a big blow to our business,” he said. Managing Director, Hardrock Hotel, Chiyem Aghado said: “We will be losing business and we will miss him. It is a bad one for the hotel business and the people around too. I pray the church will continue to grow.” Omowunmi Ayoade and Mrs Nkechi Olakunle both staff members of Hymax Hotel and Suites summed the impact of Joshua’s death thus: “It will be much on our hotel business. Egbe community will miss him. Many of the hotel owners are in serious trauma since the death of TB. But, what can we do? God will see us through.”Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, described Joshua as a committed tourism promoter with a huge contribution to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He said the church has the largest network of religious tourism in Nigeria that cuts across 15 countries. “Each time the church is holding its major event over 60 private jets will be parked at the Lagos Airport. Also, all hotels in Ikeja axis are always fully booked. In fact, I am impressed by his contributions to tourism development in the country. “If 100 travellers from other African countries such as Zambia, Uganda and South Africa, are applying for Nigeria’s visa, over 70 will be heading to Synagogue. Each year, the number of foreigners the church attract to Nigeria is monumental and a major boost to our tourism. In fact, I am impressed by his contributions. I pray the church authority will handle the succession process peacefully so that the image of the church will remain unblemished after Joshua’s death,” Runsewe said. Director-General, Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), Mr. Folorunsho Coker described the late man of God as a great influential pillar of the society, who reached out to the globe. He stated that though Prophet Joshua has died, his teachings will continue to bring worshippers to the church on pilgrimage to TB Joshua. Coker noted that there may be a reduction in number of tourists for a while but that like religious tourists to other sites, it will later pick up. Coordinator, Lagos State Chapter, Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN) Mr. Gbenga Sunmonu, said TB Joshua’s death was a monumental loss to the tourism and hospitality industry. “A lot of the hotels in the industry will be challenged if programmes executed are not in line with the man’s vision. Tourist’s inflow will definitely decline because his personality has cornered inflow to the SCOAN. Prophet T.B. Joshua has played his role and has made a contribution that will leave an indelible mark in the history of religious tourism in Lagos State,” he added. The late Joshua, who was said to be the third richest pastor in Nigeria and most influential in Africa, was said to worth about $20 million. Daily Times gathered that part of his unfinished projects include a five-star resort project located near the church in Ikotun, nearing completion, worth billions of naira. According to a source, he planned to donate a coaster bus to National Institute of Hospitality and Tourism (NIHOTOUR) infulfillment of a promise earlier made to a team from the NIHOTOUR, Lagos zonal office last month. The late pastor, about a month ago, received a six-man team of NIHOTOUR, Lagos zonal office, led by its Zonal Co-coordinator, Mrs. Chinyere Ibeabuchi, at SCOAN Prayer Mountain Resort, Agogo-Egbe, Lagos, where he promised to assist the institute. NIHOTOUR, during the visit, praised the late pastor for his contribution to tourism in Nigeria and sought his assistance. Mrs Ibeabuchi thene said: “The Federal Government and the leadership of NIHOTOUR are doing very well in funding the institute but we could do with help from you in different areas to achieve our mandate. The late Prophet Joshua had thanked the team and said he was aware that both NIHOTOUR and SCOAN were operating within the tourism industry but on a different level. He then promised to assist NIHOTOUR in whatever capacity he could. One of his aide said: “He had called me with the head driver some days back and told us to go and check at the garage where new Coaster buses were parked for a suitable one to donate to NIHOTOUR. “We went and identified one. The next stage was to write the name of NIHOTOUR on the bus and agree on a date for handing over. You know I recently told you that we were going to call you people very soon. That was the handover arrangements we were making. I even told the prophet that the bus should also carry his name since he donated it, but he refused and said it was not necessary. “We were in the process of finalising the arrangements for the handing over when he died.”