Iba Gani Adams, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, claimed on Sunday that the killing of more than 50 persons in Igangan town, Ibarapa, Oke Ogun area of Oyo State, proves that war is looming in the country. While denouncing the heinous murders of innocent town inhabitants, Adams urged Fulani herdsmen and criminals to keep away from the southwest or face serious pushback. READ ALSO: Residents flee as Gunmen attack Oyo community, kill 10 Over 50 people were killed, automobiles were burned, and over 20 buildings were torched in the early hours of Sunday, bringing the entire town of Igangan and its environs to its knees. Adams declared war on the Southwest after word of the fatalities and destruction reached him, including gruesome footage of the atrocity. Makinde reacts as gunmen invade Igangan, kill scores He said the North had unleashed terror on the region, stressing the need for the people to rise and defend themselves “without looking back”. “In a situation like this, you rise and defend yourself. Where are the police when the bandits started killing our people in Igangan today? “Even the palace of Asigangan of Igangan land, Oba Adewuyi Olaoye, was not spared and the monarch, according to reports had been whisked away by the bandits. “Three days ago, the Director-General of Oyo State Southwest Security Network Amotekun, Gen. Kunle Togun(Retd) raised the alarm that herdsmen had invaded the southwest. “I corroborated his statements and called for urgent surveillance across the southwest. Now with the recent onslaught on Igangan people, it is evident that the Fulani herdsmen are on a predetermined mission to kill, maim and decimate the southwest. Insecurity: God‘ll not forgive Buhari if Nigeria goes to war – Gani Adams “This is one killing too many, I will not fold my arms seeing the blood of innocent people being shed like it is in Igangan. “Now that North had declared war on the Southwest, we will never silent or compromise on the homicide going on in the southwest. I want to charge all the governors in the Southwest, as well as the traditional rulers to rise to this occasion.” The Yoruba generalissimo warned criminal herders to stay away from the region, as the Southwest can no longer accommodate killers. OPC and other local security operatives will continue to ensure that the region is safe for residents. “Those killed in Igangan town have their families and friends, there is blood flowing in their veins and in a moment their lives were cut short by killer herdsmen and bandits in their home”. Adams disclosed that information at his disposal indicates that bandits and killer herdsmen have invaded the Southwest thus pushing the security outfits to the wall. He urged all governors to beef up the security of their respective states to provide adequate security for the people of the region.