Hope Uzodinma, the governor of Imo State, says no one can tell him why the All Progressives Congress (APC) will not be re-elected in the upcoming general elections. Governor Uzodinma asked Nigerians to present reasons why the ruling party should not win the 2023 elections after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday at the Presidential Villa. President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, according to Uzodinma, has performed admirably and should be commended. “Not just from the South-east, many governors in Nigeria would join the APC,” the governor remarked in response to a query about if other governors from the Southeast will defect to the APC. “Part of the problem of this government is the deliberate attempt by some group of people to pull (it) down. “Because nobody is telling me that this government is not performing, that salaries are not being paid or that the roads are not being constructed or the railway is not going or the various intervention funds to empower our youths are not being given out. “Nobody has come in concrete terms to accuse this government of one failure or the other. All we hear is that herdsmen and farmers are fighting and for that reason, 200 people are kidnapped. People are shot down there, people are killed there. “What do you want the government to do? We must be realistic. I believe in pragmatism. I believe in doing things right. Can anybody come and tell me one, two, three, four reasons why this APC should not win in the next election? “All I hear is that because of insecurity this, insecurity that. But you send people out in the night to go and cause trouble and use it in the day to blame the government,” the governor said in reference to the high rate of insecurity in the country. Governor Uzodinma, speaking on the issue in Imo state, urged fellow leaders to join hands to remove insecurity in the state, saying that he could not restore security on his own. He urged all parties to become more involved in the issues, including traditional rulers, religious leaders, and politicians, in order to bring peace to the country. He also added that prior political office holders who neglected to speak out against the country’s security problem should be held accountable. According to him, if all leaders speak out condemning perpetrators of insecurity, a lot of changes would be visible. “Anybody worth his onions as a leader should be able to speak out. How many of them are speaking out. “How many of them are condemning what is going on. rather what you see is leaders fanning the embers of insecurity, the governor said. He also stated that anyone found culpable in the destruction of government property would be made to face the full wrath of the law.