By Nosa Akenzua, Asaba The pervasive trend of burning of police stations, killing of officers, kidnappings and other heinous crimes by unknown gunmen across the states continued at the weekend. In the early hours of Sunday, unidentified gunmen reportedly numbering about twenty razed down Ashaka Police Station in Delta State after sporadic shootings that saw policemen including residents of the community scampering for safety. Although no life was confirmed lost, but the armed men were said to have shot sporadically into the air severally to scare residents of the community including policemen on duty who allegedly took to their heels for their lives. Recall that a few weeks ago same unidentified gunmen stormed Nsukwa Police Division in Aniocha South Local Government Area of the state and burnt down the station with some policemen allegedly killed during the melee that followed heavy shooting by the armed gang who were said to have been masked in horrendous act created fear of in the area. Since then, investigation revealed that there has been palpable tension and fear of the unknown in most communities where there are Police Divisions, especially with the glaring fear that had gripped the police in the state. Confirming the burning of Ashaka Police Station, the Police Public Relations Officer in the State, DSP Edafe Bright in a statement a copy of which was made available to our correspondent said, “In the early hours of today 6/6/21 at about 0100hours, some enemies of the community and that of the police all armed men numbering about twenty stormed Ashaka police station, they threw IEDS at the station, shot sporadically, and set the police station that was built by the community/DESOPADEC ablaze, and also burnt down one patrol vehicle also bought for the police division by good people of the community just to ensure that police presence is not felt. It is pertinent to state that no life was lost and no arm was taken away. However, the police will not relent in ensuring that law and order is maintained in any community.” The statement said that unprovoked attacks on the police will not deter the police from providing the needed security in any community in Delta state, adding that” The hoodlums who perpetrated this dastardly act will certainly not go free, as serious efforts are on to arrest them and bring them to book” In another development, on Saturday the statement further said that the police acting on a tip off, the Commissioner of Police Delta State, deployed joint tactical teams of the command who stormed the hideout of suspected armed robbers/kidnappers, engaged the hoodlums in a serious gun duel, the joint team killed six of them, while others fled with gunshot injuries into the bush, one Ak 47 rifle, one pump action gun, one AK 47 magazine with 25 live ammunition were recovered. In the same vein, on the same Saturday, the men of Delta State Command while on stop and search duty along Patani-Bayelsa road intercepted A Sienna bus with Reg. no LSR 813 XL with four occupants, on sighting the police, they quickly tried to maneuver in a bid to escape, the police went after them, on searching the vehicle, one locally made Barretta Pistol was recovered, and four suspects namely, Efe Oyenikoro ‘m’ Felix George ‘m’ Emmanuel Job ‘m’ Joan Yapiteghe ‘m’ were arrested. Part of the statement reads: “The Command under the watch of CP Ari Muhammed Ali will not relent, as the CP has given marching order to all tactical commanders, DPOS and men of the command to be on their toes, gather intelligence and take the battle to the den of criminals. He also urges members of the public to volunteer useful information that will assist the police in discharging its duties” Meanwhile, tension mounts in Ashaka Community following the ugly incident which reportedly had unsettled its residents in the early hours of Sunday.It was gathered that residents for fear of the unknown have remained in their houses amidst heavily armed mobile policemen’s presence at every nooks and crannies. Speaking to Journalists in the area, an elderstateman, Chief Ezikiel Nwakaego said “We are seriously facing difficult times in Nigeria. Now it is Ashaka community, infact our police station has been set ablaze by these same rampaging gunmen who have been burning down police stations and killing policemen. “We are appealing to the state government led by Dr Ifeanyi Okowa to come to our aid and ensure that the people of Ashaka Community are safe in the hands of these rampaging gunmen allegedly killing people everywhere”