On Saturday, President Muhammadu Buhari will fly to Ghana. On Saturday, Buhari is expected to attend the 59th Ordinary Session of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS, in Accra, Ghana. The president’s journey was detailed in a statement signed by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, and shared to DAILY POST on Friday. With the exception of Mali, which was recently excluded from the group, Buhari will leave Abuja on Saturday to join other ECOWAS Heads of State and Government for the regional bloc’s mid-year statutory meeting. ECOWAS Special Envoy and Mediator to Mali, former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan, is also due to submit a report to the Summit of the Heads of State on his most recent working visit to the West African country. A report on ECOWAS institutional changes, single-currency programs, and a memorandum on the proposed framework for rotating ECOWAS Member States’ candidature for the African Union Chairmanship will also be presented to the Heads of State and Government. The statement added: “A communiqué will be issued at the end of the Summit. “The 59th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Heads of State and Government was preceded by the 46th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Mediation and Security Council (MSC) at the Ministerial Level and the 86th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Council of Ministers, in Accra, Ghana. “The MSC, comprising of Ministers responsible for defence and foreign affairs from the ECOWAS Member States, considered the security situation in the ECOWAS Region, among other topical issues on the agenda while the 86th Ordinary Session considered a memorandum on the post COVID-19 industry recovery plan, the 2021 mid-term report of the President of the ECOWAS Commission and the ongoing institutional reforms at ECOWAS, among others. “President Buhari will be accompanied by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Zubairu Dada, Minister of Defence, Maj. General Bashir Magashi (Rtd), Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, the National Security Adviser, Maj. General Babagana Monguno (Rtd), Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele and the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar. “The President is expected back in Abuja at the end of the Summit.”