*Gov, Speaker call for calm Stephen Gbadamosi, Ibadan Suspected herdsmen have, again, attacked the ancient town of Igangan in Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State,, killing many residents. The bandits also burnt down the palace of the Asigangan of Igangan, Oba Lasisi Adeoye, as well as many vehicles, including a truck loaded with cassava tubers, and a fuel station. Although, the number of casualties could not be confirmed as of press time, claims by residents that many people were killed were corroborated by viral pictures of the attack showing the burnt palace and corpses with machete cuts in different parts of the town. Some reports said no fewer than 20 persons died in the weekend massacre. Yoruba rights activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, also known as Sunday Igboho, had, on January 15, led his supporters to dislodge the Fulani herdsmen from the community, after alleged rising perpetration of criminality by the visitors or settlers in the community and its environs. The latest attack, according to residents who pleaded anonymity, was carried out in the dead of the night, leaving some of the attackers and residents who fought back as well as a member of the Amotekun Corps, identified as Adeagbo, dead and many others injured. However, calm is said to have returned to the town as the state governor, Engineer, ‘Seyi Makinde, said on Sunday that he received the “the shocking news of the attacks on residents of Igangan, Ibarapaland, in the early hours of this morning (Sunday), while the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Honourable Adebo Ogundoyin, condemned the attack. The governor said: “I have received the shocking news of the attacks on residents of Igangan, Ibarapaland, in the early hours of this morning. I am currently being briefed on the incidents. “I urge residents to remain calm, as security operatives are now in control of the situation.” The Speaker, ogundoyin, in a message made available to journalists on Sunday, that he also received a distress call over the development. “Early this morning, I received a distress call of fresh attack on our people in Igangan, Ibarapa North Local Government Area, by bandits and suspected criminal herders in which about five residents were allegedly killed, some injured and properties burnt. “I condemn this unfortunate attack and sympathise with the families who lost their loved ones and properties. I also appreciate the security personnel, vigilantes, Amotekun Corps, our local hunters and brave men that rose in the middle of the night to combat and save lives of the people. “These murderers are not tired and it is our collective responsibility to protect our lives, women, children and communities from these evil doers,” he said. While efforts to get reaction from the state police command remained futile until the time of this report, as the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Adewale Osifeso, could not be reached, the state commandant of the Amotekun Corps, Olayinka Olayanju, said more of his men had been deployed to the community to maintain peace.