…Says Buhari’s statement is unfortunate By Moses Oyediran, Enugu Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, the apex Igbo socio- cultural Organization at the weekend called on Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and Igbo youths in the region to employ dialogue as a means for resolving the crisis noting that there is nothing to celebrate in violence. It also backed the declaration of may 30th as Biafra day by South East Governors saying that time to mourn or remembrance of the dead was traditionally a solemn occasion. Ohanaeze said it was imperative and proper for Ndigbo to remember their own who dead across the country either in genocide or civil war in Nigeria between 1967 and 1970. Addressing a press conference at the Ohanaeze Headquarters in Enugu the President General Ambassador George Obiozor also called on  President Buhari and the federal government to adopt dialogue in resolving the present national crises. “I want to appeal to all Igbo youths involved in violence and strongly advise them that there is nothing to celebrate in violence. We cannot change our lots and situations by steering and provoking hatred amongst ourselves, raining insults and abuses on ourselves and declaring war against those who disagree with our own ideas and approach to resolving our common problems”, he said. The president general described as unfortunate the threats by the president to the south east. “In this context, Ohaneze Ndigbo worldwide consider as unfortunate the implications of the President’s statements. The last time I checked or heard a President speak of (shock and awe) it was reserved for the enemy, not to citizens”, he said. “To secure Nigeria, to develop Nigeria and to have peace, the federal government should immediately engage all Nigerian groups through their various leaders in an urgent dialogue. “Dialogue is what patriotic Nigerians and the international community is now expecting of Nigerian leadership to resolve the current problem.” Obiozor stressed that Igbo will not support the break-up of Nigeria but will not be victims of Nigeria’s Unity.