Joy Obakeye Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria, (ASCNSN), has said payment of gratuity to civil servants should be an important entity in the workers entitlement, stating that the federal government should review the 2014 Pension Reform Act. This was disclosed by the acting National President of the union, Comrade Tommy Etim Okon, during a press briefing in Lagos recently. According to him, “It is important to emphasize that the Association has remained focused in pursuing welfare interest of members. In this connection, the Union has tabled some of all these labour issues before the Federal Government and they are being processed” He further explained that gratuity is a portion of the percentage of the amount being given to an employee after a period of service and that pension is tied to gratuity, but regrets that so many do not know it. “Government no longer pay gratuity, it is an issue we must fight and get. If they want to amend the 2014 pension Constitution, it should be amended with the line of knowledge we have. We are calling for the amendment of the act. We are no longer safe; we are challenging the government with it. “In this regard, we have advised our members to keep their records intact right from the day they joined service. It must be provided and if we get it right, we can now fight with it,” He further stressed that, “Government is hiding what we don’t know. They are supposed to keep to their agreement they kept to workers. Salaries are no longer negotiated. They should tell us when they are capable of paying, they should also be kind enough to tell us how much they spent to feed their dogs if they want to negotiate with it. The Nigerian civil servants are civilized now.” While remaking on the implementation of the national minimum wage in different states of the federation, he disclosed thatImo, Benue, Anambra and Kano state among six other states are yet to implement the new national minimum wage. Explaining that other states yet to implement the wage include Bauchi, Kebbi, Kogi, Nasarawa, Taraba and Zamfara. Okon said Anambra and Taraba States had concluded negotiation but has not begin implementation. He mentioned that Bauchi, Benue, Kebbi, Kogi, Nasarawa and Zamfara States are still on the process of negotiations, while Imo State is yet to begin negotiation. While he applauded states that had concluded negotiations and implemented, he mentioned that not only had Kano State commenced negotiation but also reduced workers’ salaries. Comrade Okon said it was an aberration for any government to reduce or contemplate of not paying salaries that was passed into law. “Labour issue are under exclusive legislations, any attempt to take it out therefore means that the worker is declared person non-grata in the workplace though the minimum wage is on exclusive legislation, yet the state government is saying they cannot pay and they have refused to tell us how much they spend on security vote and there is still insecurity in the country. They refused to tell us how many Personal Assistants they have, they refused to tell how much they have used to feed their dogs weekly. This is man-inhumanity to man.” “The problem of industrial relations is not caused by the workers themselves, but by government. Why do you renege on agreement when you know that is a potential time bomb. When we enter into agreement, it is a simple rule of collective bargaining. We have arrived at a collective agreement and you’re reneging without informing the parties involved and see how we can discuss periodically. Government sit in their comfort zone and say they cannot like what is happening in Ekiti State. Government should think about the well being of the citizens, and not your comfort seat. A worker has a lot of responsibilities. If you feel a minimum wage of 30,000 is too much how is a bag of rice? I call it arbitration for any government reducing or contemplating not paying salaries, then they review their manifesto. We have exhausted all mechanisms in industrial relations and collective bargaining.”