A former Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, has accused his successor, Senator Hope Uzodimma, of laying claims and inaugurating projects he built when he governed the state between May 29, 2011, and May 28, 2019, as part of the celebration of his one year in office. But, the governor in a swift response said his predecessor was battling with his conscience over his numerous and quality achievements for the state in one year. Okorocha, who described as shocking for a sitting governor to be claiming projects done by any of those before him, added that such government should know the ugly impression it would be leaving in the minds of people. Okorocha who spoke through his media aide, Samuel Onwuemeodo, in a statement in Owerri, said, “It is not only embarrassing to the governor and his government but indeed, to the people of the state. It is worrisome, for the ‘camphope government’ to be claiming or taking the credits of the projects done by any of the governors before him, especially by Okorocha, and continues to be having counter claims. It doesn’t speak well of the government on seat “The governor and his media handlers should know the difference between constructing roads and rehabilitating roads or filling potholes on existing roads. “The most recent annoying one was the claim of Imo Foundation, built by Okorocha and inaugurated on November 13, 2014, with Mrs Ngozi Njoku from Nwangele LGA as the pioneer Director General. “So, it is absurd, very awkward for the camphope government to claim to have built the foundation and to play a fast one, they gave it a different name. We won’t say that such action is very dirty but to say the least, such belligerent and nauseating action should not come from a state government. “A day before the government claimed the lmo Foundation, it had also claimed the Akachi Road. That place was a thick forest but Okorocha cleared it and constructed the Akachi Road and the Akachi Tower. If the government on seat had filled one or two potholes on the road, that should not mean, it constructed it.” The statement recalled that Okorocha rehabilitated and remodelled a number of projects done by Chief lkedi Ohakim and Achike Udenwa but, never claimed to have constructed them While denying the accusations, the Senior Special Assistant to the governor on print media, Modestus Nwamkpa, described Okorocha as a “prisoner of conscience”, who could not withstand the monumental achievements recorded by his successor, against his own wasteful and inglorious eight years ‘lootocratic’ regime”. “Unfortunately, Chief Okorocha and his supporters have continued to expose the elasticity of their shamelessness. I never knew that Okorocha enjoys seeing good and durable projects but during his time, he fed Imo State with china or biscuit roads. He said that Governor Uzodimma is filling potholes on roads. This is tomfoolery of the highest order. “So Federal Secretariat road, Dick Tiger, Chukwuma Nwoha, MCC, Aba Road, Owerri/ Onitsha, Owerri/ Orlu Roads, and so on are potholes roads? This has confirmed that this Okorocha still lacks remorse and shame. “He should swallow his empty pride and openly tender an unreserved apology to Imo people in particular whom he looted their resources and properties.