Following the completion of hearings and adoption of addresses, the Edo State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal in Benin City is expected to render judgment in the four petitions before it. A case between Agol Ebun Tracy and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and Governor Godwin Obaseki is one of the petitions labelled EPT /ED/GOV/05/2020. The petitioner was the candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) in the governorship election held in September 2020. The Allied Peoples Movement (APM) and the electoral umpire, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Obaseki, as well as the Edo State deputy governor, Philip Shaibu, have filed another petition labeled EPT /ED/GOV/04/2020. The third petition with reference number EPT /ED/GOV/02/2020 was filed by the Action People’s Party (APP) against Governor Obaseki, the PDP, and INEC. The Tribunal will also rule on another petition, EPT /ED/GOV/01/2020, involving the Action Democratic Party (ADP) and Iboi Emmanuel, as well as INEC, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Godwin Obaseki, the All Progressives Congress (APC), and Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the APC nominee in the election. READ ALSO: Donation to Buhari’s state won’t buy you APC ticket Bamgbose attacks Tinubu Three of the petitions have their major issues bordering on the qualification of Governor Obaseki to contest the election. In the fourth petition, counsels on both sides had argued over whether the issue was unlawful substitution or exclusion of the candidate of the sole petitioner. The three-man tribunal is chaired by Justice Yunusa Musa and has Justice Suleiman Abubakar and Justice Olufunmilayo Stanley as first and second members respectively. It is also scheduled to deliver ruling on some applications which it had reserved until the final judgement. The Tribunal had its inaugural sitting on October 30, while the pre-hearing session commenced on December 7 and closed on December 16. Hearing in the different petitions commenced on January 11, 12, and 13 respectively and the counsels have adopted written addresses in all the four petitions.