Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has again queried President Muhammadu Buhari on reports of massive treasury looting allegedly involving persons close to him. Insisting that such reports have further exposed Buhari’s administration as a putrid citadel of corruption, the party tasked the President to offer explanation to allegations that certain officials and individuals close to the Presidency defrauded the nation of the sum of N51 billion out of which N2.5 billion was wired to a member of his immediate family. In the same vein, the PDP challenged the government “to speak out on allegations, also in the public space, that 122 posh properties, valued at over N1.6 trillion and seized by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), were shared and allocated to cronies on the directives of the Presidency.” Presenting the party’s position in a statement on Sunday, PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said: “ the Buhari Presidency should not pretend not to be aware that the media is awash with reports that a known confidant of Mr. President and certain officials of the Nigerian Customs defrauded our nation to the tune of N51 billion under a hazy ‘Revenue Assurance Fund,’ out of which N2.5 billion was reported to have been transferred to a foundation allegedly owned by a female member of the President’s immediate family. “This close confidant, who is alleged to be fronting for certain individuals close to the President in scandalous contracts running into billions of naira in the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) among other government agencies, was arrested at Heathrow Airport in the United Kingdom in 2019, for alleged passport scam and laundering of 200,000 pounds allegedly belonging to a particular relation of Mr. President. “On the EFCC scandal, the Buhari Presidency should come clean on how the anti-graft agency was hijacked to become an instrument of treasury looting and corrupt enrichment for fraudulent friends and officials of the Buhari administration. READ ALSO: I didn’t accuse Secondus of fraud – PDP auditor “It is indeed appalling that such impunity and barefaced looting are going on under an administration that came into governance with an assurance of fighting corruption, only to end up swimming in an ocean of corruption.” The PDP asked the governmentto end its silence as the issues are already in the public domain, with Nigerians demanding for investigations. The party, therefore, demanded that the Buhari administration should order an immediate and open investigation into the allegations into these “duplicitous enterprises” for which persons connected to the Presidency have again been mentioned.