By Tom Garba, Yola Following last week bye-election of Lamurde Ward, Lamurde Local Government Area of Adamawa state where the All Progressives Congress (APC) party won the election, a Councillor representing Gyela Ward, Mubi South Local Government, Hon Mohammed Auwal Haruna said that the poor leadership qualities of the council chairmen contributed to PDP losing in the election. He added that all the Chairmen in the state are corrupt, only embezzling money from the coffers of the council’s treasuries, except the ALGON, who is Mubi South Chairman, Hon Jingi Rufai that is trying in the state. Haruna in a record audio making waves in many WhatsApp groups, going viral in other social media platforms in his own opinion said the outcome of the bye-elections is as a result of the fact that Local Government Chairmen in Adamawa have turned themselves into taskmasters and wanting all things done their ways without involving them as team players and critical stakeholders. He lamented that the failure of PDP winning the last Saturday’s election as a ruling party in the state is because of the way and manner Council chairmen have turned themselves to ramble-rousers, political demagogues without being fair to them as elected political office holders in their respective Local Governments. Mohammed worried that the Chairmen have succeeded in caging the councilors in Adamawa state to be simple rubber stamps by putting fair on them not to checkmate them or query their doings as leaders of the council. “Nothing has caused this failure than leaving us behind and not involving us in the local government affairs. ” For over one year nothing tentatively we’ve done as councilors in the state, we are the political leaders close to the real voters, the people in the grassroots, having a huge political responsibility to play a vital role but they are not carrying us along. “Why won’t we lose a common councillorship election? Their fault is purely coming from our chairmen. I’m afraid is a bad omen for the ruling party comes 2023 General elections if they mean it not to work with us. “We are directly close to the electorates, all sorts of demands are on us and our chairmen only knows how to pay salaries leaving us with nothing to support our party, our people in our respective wards. ” We are truly dying in silence and they don’t want us to talk. Let me tell you, people, we have to be bold enough to fight our rights. Being Silence because of fear will not give us freedom, we must talk. “We want the Governor, Party and senior stakeholders to know that councilors are the back borne of politics, ignoring them by the Chairmen Is dangerous for the party. ” With what is going on out of two hundred and twenty-six wards we can’t boost of winning fifty wards if the election should be conducted today,” Haruna said Haruna said this while having a closed-door meeting of the councilors forum in Adamawa called on the attention of other councilors to unite to save themselves from the tyrannical leadership of their various chairmen. According to him, the only way out of this bad leadership is to be bold and speak out for the people concern to know that their respective chairmen are making use of them with no result to show for the people they are representing, at the end they have succeeded in destroying their political career with a very bleak political future. The Audio was suspected to leak out without any of the councilors knows about it and Haruna was heard emphasizing the need for the legislative to do their best to salvage their political wards, an image which is under serious neglect by the Chairmen. He however called on the Chairmen to take a good stewardship clue from the ALGON Chairman and the council Boss of Mubi South Local Government, Hon Jingin Rufai who has done much for the area. According to him. Rufai has brought about a watershed development in the communities that were left and abandoned to self-help community support. “ALGON Chairman have turned Mubi South Local Government to a Mini government House with state of the art furniture, since our first day we resume into office, this man has never failed to pay us our salaries, he always pays us our furniture allowances. ” He has done some many electrification projects in many wards including Gyela, my very constituency, this man gave the empowerment of cars and capital to nanny businessmen and women. If I tell our Chairman is not doing well I’m not being fair to him. But all I’m saying the other chairmen should follow suit and do the needful to our people and councilors across the state.” He said