By Doosuur Iwambe The Tertiary Education Trust Fund, TETFund, has urged all public public tertiary institutions statutorily benefiting from its interventions to improve on efficient service delivery. Executive Secretary of TETFund, Prof Suleiman Bogoro said, it is only by doing so that it’s mandate to achieved the desired results will be achieved. Bogoro spoke during a workshop organised by the fund for nodal officers and directors of quality assurance of the 226 beneficiary institutions with the theme: “building skills for effective service delivery”. He  warned that its desire to achieve results, in line with its mandate, could be jeopardized if beneficiary tertiary institutions render dysfunctional services. While disclosing that the workshop being the first of its kind, was organised by the fund to engender synergy between the agency and it’s beneficiary institutions, he added that the hallmark of the fund is built on the bedrock of effectiveness and efficiency. “The hallmark of the fund is built on the bedrock of effectiveness and efficiency. This is because of the anticipated impact we seek to achieve in all our beneficiary institutions,” he said. Represented by the Director, Office of the Executive Secretary, TETFund, Arc. Uchendu Wogu, Bogoro said the theme of the workshop was crafted on the premise of building skills for effective skills in the benefiting institutions. The TETFund boss said the training would equip participants with skill-oriented ideas in the face of global competitiveness, adding that key objectives of building skills for effective service delivery will be extensively delivered by experienced resource persons. According to him, areas of interest in the training include “Quality assurance methods and enforcement in infrastructure and content abased interventions in the beneficiary institutions,” as well as “strategic planning, corporate objectives and call analysis; effective communication and efficient service delivery in the era of ICT,” among others. Speaking on the expected outcome of the workshop, the National Coordinator of SERICOM, Nnena Akajemeli, expressed confidence that the training will enhance better management of processes and systems, and would be monitored to also measure compliance. READ ALSO: Gowon wants rotation of presidency among six regions, governorship in states, others According to Akajemeli, when processes and systems are monitored to measure compliance, satisfaction and quality service delivery would also be assured. She further stated that quality and honest feedbacks are expected from the beneficiary institutions at the end of the training; as well as better engagement between the institutions and the service providers in TETFund. “We expect effective partnership thereafter; and the new intervention guidelines are also here;  and so they are going to take them through the processes of these guidelines and what it entails. ‘It is preparing them to come forward with their expected obligations; so at the end we expect enhanced engagement between the beneficiary institutions and their service provider, TETFund,” she said.