Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on National Planning and Economic Development, Abdul Ganiyu Olododo, has stated that the Covid-19 pandemic has exposed Nigeria’s unpreparedness to manage and survive in critical situations in the face of an ever-increasing population, despite oil revenue of over $80 trillion in the last 40 years. Olododo stated this at a public hearing on ‘Need for Nigeria to Develop a Long Term Social and Economy Development and Need to Make Adequate Plans for a Post-Oil Economy in Nigeria’ at the National Assembly Complex, Abuja on Monday. He said the diversification of Nigeria’s economy was the only clear option that the nation as if’s to survive the current global economic uncertainty. He remarked: “It is a depressing fact that our great country which has been blessed with intellectual, brilliant and gifted minds, excels greatly In coming up with eloquent and masterfully crafted development plans but ends up coming shortly during the implementation process. Examples are Millennium development goals, Vision 2020, and vision 20-20-20. “Crude oil which for several years dominated Nigeria’s foreign exchange earnings is currently undergoing price fluctuations as a result of changes in global realities and energy-efficient innovations. This has forced us as a nation to not only have a rethink but to also think outside the box. “The 9th Assembly through this Committee is willing and ready to work hand in hand with the Ministry of Budget and National Planning and other relevant sectors to improve the current ranking of Nigeria’s GDP as the 31st best economy in the world and 1st in Africa.” Presenting his ministry’s budget, Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clement Agba, said the plans for a post-oil economy era in Nigeria broaches on the constitution of thematic areas solely for Digital Economy, Bio-Economy, Science, Technology and Innovation; Culture, Tourism, Creative Industry, and Hospitality. According to him, the New Plans captured the concentric diversification of the Nigerian economy both in the oil and non-oil revenue sources through initiatives encapsulated in relevant policies, programmes, and projects of the Government in the new plans. “Accelerated sustained inclusive and private-sector-led growth. Reform and investments that will help improve investment returns, particularly macro-structural measures and projects to enhance access to cost of physical infrastructure which is the most urgent area for actions. “The Input-Output Approach recognizes the need to focus on priority sectors that have high economic potential that enhances diversification from oil to the non-oil economy and promotes sustainable economic growth. “One of the approaches adopted in the preparation of the New Plans to consider the post-oil economy in Nigeria is the use of the Input-Output Approach. “This implies that in order for growth to impact development meaningfully, it needs to have a greater impact on Income, Employment, Welfare, and Poverty Reduction,” he stated. Earlier while declaring the meeting open, Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila said at present, the country was entirely at the mercy of fluctuations in the global price of oil and gas at a time when it is increasingly evident that prices are on a sustained downward trend. He added: “We must be resolute in our determination and unyielding commitment to overcome the challenges that confront us. Part of our purpose here today is to begin to ascertain through engagement with one another the role of every stakeholder in driving this process of national social rebirth and economic reorganization. “We have a limited window of time to act before worsening circumstances force our hands in ways we cannot predict. I urge you to move with due haste, paying attention to all the intervening events without being distracted. “The world is racing away from the extractive economic model towards a knowledge economy model that prizes technological innovation and the marketplace of ideas over heavy industry and trade in natural resources.”