Ten-man Porto upset Juventus to reach the Champions League quarter-finals on away goals after a 4-4 aggregate draw in spite of losing 3-2 to the Italian side on Tuesday. Sergio Oliveira’s extra-time free-kick for Porto’s second goal proved decisive for the visitors. Porto dominated the first half and took the lead in the 19th minute with Oliveira’s penalty taking them into the break in front as they looked comfortable at the Juventus Stadium. But with the first attack of the second half Juve’s Federico Chiesa, who scored their goal in the 2-1 last-16, first-leg defeat in Portugal, arrowed a strike into the top corner to give his side hope four minutes after the re-start. The game turned further in Juve’s favour as Mehdi Taremi needlessly got sent off for picking up a second yellow card in the 54th minute for kicking the ball away, with Chiesa levelling the scoreline on aggregate with his head in the 63rd minute. The hosts had chances to win the tie but the game went to extra time and the drama was far from over as Porto won a free-kick which Oliveira drilled home to spark wild scenes of celebration amongst the players and coaching staff. Adrien Rabiot’s header three minutes from time for Juve ensured a grandstand finish in an enthralling encounter, but Porto held on for a famous victory. In the other game, Borussia Dortmund striker Erling Haaland struck once in each half as they drew 2-2 with Sevilla in their Champions League last-16 second leg on Tuesday and advanced to the quarter-finals with a 5-4 aggregate win. The Norwegian notched his 20th Champions League goal in 14 games — and 10th in the competition this season — with a controversial 54th-minute penalty. This was after having tapped in a Marco Reus cutback against the run of play to give Dortmund the lead in the first half. Sevilla, who made the quarter-finals in 2018 and enjoyed a strong first half, hit back with two goals from Youssef En-Nesyri, the first a 66th-minute penalty followed by a stoppage-time header to make it t 2-2. The 20-year-old Haaland has now become the all-time top Norwegian scorer in the competition, with one more goal than current Manchester United coach Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, as Dortmund reached the last eight for the first time since 2017. Haaland’s penalty, awarded following a lengthy VAR review for an earlier challenge after he had put the ball in the net, was initially saved before he retook it and scored.