Manchester City striker Sergio Aguero has announced that he will leave the club at the end of the season. The Argentine’s contract with the club expires in the summer, and the club has confirmed that he will not be re-signed. Aguero, who joined City from Atletico Madrid in 2011, is expected to pique the interest of a number of top clubs, with Barcelona and Paris Saint-Germain among them. Aguero was keen to stay but has started just five Premier League and Champions League matches this season after being troubled by illness and injury. After suffering a knee injury in the first game of Project Lockdown in June, he had surgery which ruled him out until October. He then had a hamstring setback and missed another 10 games because of coronavirus regulations and has been struggling to prove his match sharpness. With 257 goals from 384 appearances, Aguero is the club’s record goalscorer overtaking Eric Brook’s 78-year record in 2017, and City chairman Khaldoon Al Mubarak confirmed a statue of him has been commissioned. Aguero also provided the most iconic moment in the history of the club – and possibly the Premier League – when his last-minute winner against QPR in the final game of the 2012 season secured the title from Manchester United on goal difference. He is the highest-scoring overseas player in Premier League history – and fourth overall – and has won 10 major trophies during his time at the Etihad Stadium, including four Premier League titles. “When a cycle comes to an end, may sensations arise,” Aguero said on Twitter. “A huge sense of satisfaction and pride remains in me for having played with Manchester City for a whole ten seasons – unusual for a professional player in this day and age,” Sergio Aguero wrote on social media. “Ten seasons with major achievements, throughout which I was able to become the top historic goalscorer and forging an indestructible bond with all those who love this club – people who will always be in my heart. “I was to join during the reconstruction era of 2011, and with the guidance of the owners and the contributions of many players, we earned a place among the greatest in the world. “The task to maintain this well-deserved privileged position will remain on other. As for myself, I will continue to give it my utmost for the rest of the season to win more titles and bring more joy to the fans. “Then, a new stage with new challenges will begin and I am fully ready to face them with the same passion and professionalism that I have always dedicated to continuing competing at the highest level.”