Yahaya Bello, the controversial governor of Kogi State, has said that APC National Leader Bola Tinubu is aware of his shortcomings in Nigerian politics. Bello described Tinubu as a kingmaker and leader who will back a young politician to become president in 2023 in an interview with BBC Pidgin on Monday. He went on to say that Tinubu, the former Lagos governor, is a wise and respected statesman who has groomed many of the country’s leaders and that he would back his presidential bid to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. The governor went on to say that the APC chief would prefer for the younger generation to take over the country’s leadership rather than the older generation to stay in power. When asked who, between him and Tinubu, would make a stronger president in the 2023 presidential election, Bello went philosophical. READ ALSO: Buhari to approach N’Assembly with ‘special request’ for arms supply “Our national leader, Tinubu, is a revered statesman, well-respected by all, including me. I know that he is a smart mentor. He has raised a large number of leaders in this region. He’s a fantastic kingmaker. And I’m sure he wants this country to go on autopilot as soon as possible. He is aware of his strengths and weaknesses. He knows who is capable of leading this country to a prosperous future. He will be among those who contribute to the country’s creation of a more youthful and competent president. “I trust his judgment,” he said. “What is going on right now is crazy. Nigerian youths, women, and Nigerians from all walks of life are urging me to run for president in 2023. It’s something I’ve been talking to people about. It may interest you to know that I have not given a single kobo to anyone for the purpose of printing posters or doing something else. Youths from all walks of life believe it is time for the younger generation to step into the driver’s seat and fix Nigeria. “As a result, if young Nigerians ask me to fix the country, they have the right to do so. I’m confident that if this unity among younger Nigerians continues until 2023, nobody but God Almighty will be able to prevent the youths from taking over the country’s leadership. At that time, I can assure you that the task of rebuilding this country has only just begun.” Despite the fact that Tinubu and Bello have not announced their intention to run for president, it is widely assumed that the two APC heavyweights are interested in leading the country in 2023.