The controversy surrounding the alleged secession of the Yoruba from Nigeria as spearheaded by some groups continued on Tuesday as the leader of the Ilana Omo Oodua, Prof. Banji Akintoye, replied Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Akeredolu had earlier said that the Yoruba who want self-determination should steer clear of Ondo State. In his response to Akeredolu, the Ilana Omo Oodua, the umbrella body of Yoruba Self-Determination groups within and outside  Nigeria under the leadership of Akintoye, through a press statement in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, maintained that Akeredolu belongs to the neo-classical class, let us hold our one million march peacefully in Akure if you are sure you are speaking for Ondo State people. Akintoye also stressed that Akeredolu has surrendered Ondo Farm Lands to the Government of Herdsmen to avoid being sacked through Tribunal. The Emeritus Professor also maintained that the agitation shall be a bloodless, Intellectually rooted, legally grounded one. The group, according to a copy of the Statement made available to newsmen, on Tuesday quoted a renowned Professor of History, Banji Akintoye, said Akeredolu is entitled to his opinion, stressing that the Governor only spoke for himself, and not the good people of Ondo State. Stressed further that Akeredolu belongs to the league of tiny neo-classical elites who want the business to continue as usual in Nigeria because the current structure of the country oils their selfish aggrandizement. The group said if Akeredolu is sure he speaks for the people of Ondo State, he should allow the one million march for Yoruba Nation being planned by over 100 Yoruba Self-Determination Groups to hold peacefully in Ondo State without unleashing the instrumentalities of terror and state-sponsored commercial thugs on the masses of the state that desires an autonomous Yoruba Nation. The stern statement, signed by the Homeland Secretary of the group, Basorun Kunle Adesokan, and one of its Leaders, Otunba Folashade Olukoya, stated that the agitation being spare-headed by the Akintoye led Ilana Omo Oodua on behalf of Yoruba people is not that of a plot for secession as erroneously branded by Akeredolu, but a struggle for self-determination, warning that nothing the Governor and his “oligarchic allies could do to stop an idea whose time has come”. “We wish to say very clearly that Akeredolu is entitled to his opinion. He has only spoken for himself. If he is sure he speaks for the classical masses of Ondo State, he should ensure that his army of state-induced terrorists allow us to stage our one million march peacefully in Akure, Ondo State capital to prove whether he spoke for Ondo state people or for himself. “Akeredolu feeds 100% on the commonwealth of Ondo State people. He is a member of the tiny neo-liberal and neo-classical elites who will never support the wishes and aspirations of the masses. “We saw how he grandstands on the terrorists and murderous herdsmen illegally occupying the forest reserves in his state and we saw how he chickened out to the chagrin of all of us who staked our reputation to defend him. “Akeredolu has now surrendered the farmlands in Ondo State to the government of Fulani herdsmen while masquerading to be participating in National Livestock Programme. “He is a definition of a coward who starts a battle he cannot finish. We are aware he traded Ondo people off to avoid being sacked from office through the Fulani-dominated Nigerian courts. “We are saying for the sake of clarity that what we declared is the sovereignty of Yoruba Nation from Nigeria and not secession from Nigeria. We want an autonomous Yoruba Nation. “We want to determine how we want to govern our people. We want to control and manage our resources. We want to police and secure the lives and properties of our people. “We have made our position known. Our agitation for autonomous Yoruba Nation is legally grounded, intellectually rooted and it shall be executed without shedding of blood. “Akeredolu cannot sit inside the comfort of his office and claimed to be speaking for the people of Ondo State that he has failed to regularly pay their monthly salary, pension, and gratuities,” the statement, said.