Aherhoke Okioma,YenagoaThe Managing Director of Lambofa African bar and resort, Mr. Desi Augustine, and the Bayelsa state chapter of the Travel writers corps have emphasized the need for partnership for professionalism in the tourism sector of the economy. The duo expressed their desire for the partnership Sunday during a tour of the state’s Travel writers corps on the Lambofa African bar and resort in Yenagoa, the capital of the state. Speaking to Journalists members of the corps, the director of the facility, Mr. Desi Augustine expressed his commitment towards making it a tourists delight, saying the establishment of the facility in the heart of the state capital was borne out of the genuine intentions to have a uniquely African resort in the state. He noted that at its inauguration, the facility only had a car wash, harping that over time it was expanded to include ponds for aquatic reserve and other creatures on one hand and a section for indoor African games on the other hand. Augustine stated that the facility was exceptional, noting that it was the first of its kind in Ijaw land. He pledged his continued desire to partner the travel writers corps in progress, saying with proper plans in place the state may soon be reaping the dividends of tourism like its contemporaries in the nation “I’ve traveled to so many parts of this country and I found out that whereas others have recreational and leisure facilities that put their cultural values into consideration, here we do not have any”, he said. “So upon coming back from one of such trips, we started putting things together, and so today we have this resort considering basically African hospitality, cuisines”, he added. “Though we have a master plan for this resort, what you’re seeing here is just a part of a big plan. Weren’t done with it yet.”, he noted. Also speaking, the duo of the chairman of the travel writers corps, Mr piriye Kiyaramo and Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Bayelsa state council, Mr. Samuel Numonengi commended the management of the resort for their foresight. They called on management to up their game, saying that with the presence of the maiden aquatic resort in the state capital, there were signs that the people now have an idea of the missing link between home and city life. The duo charged the Lambofa resort to engage the services of professionals so as to make their services outstanding, reiterating that the hallmark of a good tourist facility was the repeat visits made by first-time visiting tourists to such places again.