Samuel Luka, Bauchi A press release from the police dated 14th March 2021 has revealed that an inspector and one civilian were killed when hoodlums attacked a highway patrol team of the police in Nabordo town of Bauchi local government area of the state. Assigned by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of Bauchi state command, SP Ahmad Mohammad Wakil, the release said that the incident occurred on Saturday. “We regret to announce that on Saturday 14th of March 2021, at about 2130hrs, an attack was unleashed at the Nabordo safer highway Patrol Axis of the Bauchi State Police Command, on police officers patrolling Bauchi – Jos road, by unknown armed men”, the release explained. The release which described the attack as a very unfortunate one noted that it resulted in the death of a policeman, Inspector Mukhtar Ibrahim, Male, 35yrs. The press statement further said a 33-year-old resident of Nabordo town, one Uba Samaila, a civilian who was hit by a stray bullet later died at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Teaching Hospital (ATBH) while receiving treatment. Police said the Service rifle of the deceased with breach NO.32486 has been recovered while corpses of the victims have been released to the families. SP Wakil said more patrol teams have been deployed to the Area and have embarked on stop and search with a view to tracking down the hoodlums. He said that calm has so far been restored in the area and citizens can go about their normal businesses without hindrance. According to the press release, the Bauchi State Police Commissioner, CP Sylvester Abiodun Alabi regrets the ugly incident and has condoled with the bereaved family over the irreplaceable loss. SP Wakil who stated that CP Alabi has ordered a full-scale investigation into the matter assured that the Bauchi State Police Command will not relent until it digs deep into the matter. “Our resilience as enforcers of the law has been tested by these criminals, but our resolve remains firm and resolute in fishing them out and serving justice adequately”, the release said.