*Ask Igbos to pull out, dissociate from group The Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND),has said that the recent change of registration status of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB),by Nnamdi Kanu has confirmed its position that Kanu is using the group for his personal interest. The group was reacting  to the allegation that the IPOB leader recently changed the group’s documentation status. CSEPNND National President, Prof. Madumere Chika and National Secretary, Anayo Uchemba, in the statement noted that the South East professionals’ group insisted that contrary to Kanu’s claim of fighting a good cause for the South East,he was using IPOB to champion vested agenda. READ ALSO: APC condemns killing in Ekiti community While calling on well-meaning Igbo sons and daughters to pull out of the group and openly identify with Nigerian state, the South east professionals said, the  Ndigbo has so much to gain being in an indivisible Nigeria than Kanu’s acclaimed Biafra. It tasked them to remain firm in their decision in showing unalloyed allegiance to the Nigerian State and not allow Kanu succeed to manipulating them into joining his cessationist group to promote his selfish agenda. “We are vindicated by the current integrity crisis rocking IPOB and its acclaimed leader,Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, where prominent members of IPOB  came out in some  viral video to expose the criminal and selfish acts of Nnamdi Kanu in the United Kingdom (Uk) and other parts of world. “The revelations coming from IPOB members has vindicated our firm position that Nnamdi Kanu is using Indigenous People of Biafra,IPOB,to feather his personal interest rather than that of the generality of the Igbos,” the statement read. The group wondered how Kanu would change the documentation status of IPOB as a business organization owned by him and his wife when he had made gullible Ibo people believe he was championing their course. “How can Kanu change the registration status of IPOB to his personal business if he truly means well for his followers? Kanu and his wife remain the sole signatories to IPOB’s main account in Germany,  is this not clear that it’s a personal business?” The statement asked. Going further, the group insisted that,”This  has completely vindicated our stand that Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is just a common fraudsters who  is only out to make money and other personal gains for himself and not representing the Igbo nation.” According to the Igbo professionals’ body,” This has been our cry  from the onset  that IPOB is a complete fraud and a venture by one miscreant to play on the sensibilities of the Igbo people.” “We are glad today that the whole truth is out”, it said,adding:” We therefore urge people to distance themselves from the Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB.” It advised people of the South East to come out to support the present federal administration which it said, meant well for the region, so they can stand equal among other regions in benefitting from the dividends of democracy. “Let’s come together and build the Nigeria of our dream. President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress, APC Government may not have been fair to us but he’s not our problem”, the group said,noting that “it’s lack of unity that is our major problem, truth be told.” ” As Ndigbo, we are supposed to believe in Nigeria than any tribe in this country considering our spread in human and investments. We must believe in Nigeria and demand our right legitimately,”it counselled. The coalition hailed President Buhari over his development efforts in the South East geopolitical zone,saying the region was grateful to him. “We commend President Muhammad Buhari for the giant infrastructural development in South East in recent time. This is  one of its kind. Today, containers can come to our door steps in Onitsha because of the deliberate efforts of the federal government. ” We appeal to Ndigbo all over the world to support President Muhammadu Buhari and his APC led government so we can gain more,”the statement read.