The Peoples Democratic Party has berated the All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership over what it called an attempt to cover the latter’s leaders who “siphoned and frittered over N15 trillion from the national coffers,” instead of advising President Muhammadu Buhari to go after them and recover the allegedly looted funds. The party said that this is a classical case of corruption in the APC fighting back and justifying its loathsome activities. The PDP asserted that the attempt by the APC National Caretaker Committee to justify and provide cover for looters in their party at a time over 40 million Nigerians have lost their means of livelihood, with many more living in abject poverty further confirms that the APC is an “irredeemable citadel of corruption”. “It is not surprising that the Governor Mai Mai Buni-led APC leadership has become the mouthpiece for the treasury looters in their party, whose conduct has brought our nation to its knees in the last five years. “We invite the new spokesperson of corruption in the APC to answer to the leaked NNPC official memo which detailed how a whooping N9.3 trillion was stolen by alleged APC leaders as well as the reported N1.1 trillion worth of crude allegedly stolen with 18 unregistered ships belonging to certain APC leaders. “This is in addition to the reports in the public space of over N3 trillion stolen from various agencies including the Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS), National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the Social Investment Programmes where the First Lady, Aisha Buhari, exposed that N500 billion was siphoned as well as the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), in which a very top APC government official was indicted. “The APC spokesperson of corruption should answer the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) over its recent report that unemployment had escalated to an alarming 33.3% under the corrupt and treasury looting APC administration; a revelation that shows that claims of massive job creation by the deceptive APC are mere statistic hoax. “Furthermore, the APC mouthpiece of corruption should respond to reports by credible international bodies such as Transparency International (TI) that corruption in Nigeria has worsened under the APC, with our nation falling 13 places in the corruption index since 2015 under the watch of their “Mr. Integrity”, said party publicist, Kola Ologbondiyan in a statement Wednesday. The party alleged that the APC is seeking ways to cover the looting of N15 trillion belonging to the nation as Nigerians are clamoring for the investigation of the indicted APC leaders and recovery of the money.