Lil Nas X is stoking controversy over the release of a pair of shoes just days after the controversial music video for his latest song “Montero (Call Me By Your Name)” went viral. According to streetwear/culture news outlet SAINT, Lil Nas X created the “Satan Shoes” in partnership with the MSCHF clothing brand after his debut single “Old Town Lane” became a global sensation. According to reports, the shoes’ soles would contain 66 CCs of red ink and 1 drop of human blood. A pentagram pendant over the laces and “Luke 10:18” written on the side, a Bible verse about Satan’s fall from heaven, are other features of the infernal boots. Only 666 pairs of the limited edition shoes will be made, and each pair will be individually numbered. They will be released on March 29. The cost is $1,018. Despite the fact that the shoes are Nike’s classic Air Max ’97s, the shoemaker has confirmed that it had no involvement in the design or selling of the devilish kicks. “Nike did not release nor build these shoes,” Nike told fact-checking website Snopes in an email. MSCF reported that the Air Max ’97 shoes are purchased separately and personalized by the company’s artists. Although many of LNX’s fans were eager to buy the album, others were critical of the announcement, which came only days after the rapper, who is gay, danced sexually on Satan in his “Montero” music video. Pastor Mark Burns, who has appeared as a commentator on CNN and Fox News, tweeted: “This is evil and heresy and I pray that Christians rise up against this.” Grammy-winning Christian singer Kaya Jones tweeted: “I told y’all what was up a long time ago! You are ready for what we are facing. Better start reading your Bible!” Meanwhile, the official Twitter account for The Church of Satan replied to the announcement, saying: “Hook us up with a pair fam.” In response to criticism of his music video — and ahead of the shoe release — Lil Nas X explained he feels no responsibility to appeal to kids who loved “Old Town Road.” In a tweet, LNX said: “I am an adult. I am not gonna spend my entire career trying to cater to your children. That is your job.”