Journalists in the South-South and South-East geopolitical zones of Nigeria will have a lifetime opportunity to hone their skills as Folio Media and Creative Academy (FMCA) and Africa Institute for Public Policy, OnichaUgbo, Delta State host them to a three-day critical media practice workshop. FM&CA and AIPP signed a partnership last September to train media and creative industry practitioners on critical skills needed to enable them to deliver better results in the face of disruptive technologies. The Publisher and Chairman of Folio Media Group, Mr. Fidelis Anosike, signed the partnership on behalf of the organization while Professor Sylvester Monye, President of AIPP, endorsed the deal for the institution. The workshop holds March 22-24, 2021 at the AIPP in Onicha-Ugbo, with the theme, The Convergence Journalism. Dangote Group, the conglomerate owned by Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, is leading the pack of sponsors which includes The Daily Times, Africa’s Independent Media Heritage which began publication in 1926, and petroleum giant Midwestern Oil and Gas Company Limited. According to a press statement on Tuesday, Folio Media Group said about 60 journalists are expected to participate in the workshop which aims to improve the productivity of participants in public and private media organizations. The training, it added, will be facilitated by a faculty of experts in the Media industry who are set to expose participants to new trends in the industry and skills needed to navigate effectively in the postCovid-19 period. Speaking, Mr. Anosike said participants have a lot to gain at the workshop, stressing that the media landscape in the country and globally is changing fast and those who fail to adapt to the changes may become irrelevant as new technologies keep disrupting human endeavours, including the media. Anosike said: “This workshop comes at a time Nigeria and the entire world are under a new normal, no thanks to the Coronavirus pandemic and at a time new technologies are disrupting how practitioners in various industries, the media inclusive, perform their roles. Those who fail to adapt to these changes are most likely to be left behind and this is no good news to anyone. “In the media industry in particular, new trends are evolving as the days come by, one of which is the coalescing of media forms, otherwise called Convergence Journalism. The implications of this convergence journalism are what the workshop intends to expose participants to. It will also inculcate skills that will not only help participants deliver better results to their employers but keep them relevant in their chosen fields.” He urged those selected to attend the workshop to pay attention to the subjects to be treated, stressing that the training will help them find better ways of doing their reportorial duties in the face of new and disruptive technologies. He disclosed that other training programmes have been lined up for media and creative industry practitioners from other geopolitical zones, adding that dates for the workshop will be announced in due course.