Motolani Oseni The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has retained the Monetary Policy Rate at 11.5 per cent. CBN Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, who made this known on Wednesday while presenting the communique from the MPC meeting, said that the committee also agreed to hold all other parameters constant. The Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) was therefore retained at 27.5 per cent, the Liquidity Ratio at 30 per cent and the Asymmetric Corridor at plus 100 and minus 700 basis points around the MPR. The MPC is retaining all the parameters unchanged for the fourth consecutive time. Emefiele said that the committee’s decisions were informed by the need to tread cautiously so as not to reverse recent economic gains, especially the exit from recession. He said that three members of the committee voted to increase the MPR by 60, 75 and 50 basis points, respectively, while six members voted to hold all parameters unchanged. “The committee decided by a vote of three members to increase MPR by 60, 75 and 50 basis points, respectively, while six members voted to hold all parameters constant. “The dilemma that confronted the committee relates to whether to continue to focus on efforts to stimulate output growth. “It was also to decide whether to focus on reigning in inflation, which at 17.5 per cent, is almost attaining the January 2017 inflation level of 18.72 per cent”, Emefiele said. He said that given that the recent exit from economic recession is fragile, any decision to drastically rein in inflation could result in another recession. He said that the MPC decided to focus on the consolidation of the economic recovery process by taking actions that would continue to stimulate output growth and create employment. “But at the same time, we have an eye on efforts to moderate the inflationary pressure using the current administrative measures adopted by the CBN,” he said. He added that the committee also advised the Federal Government to swiftly address the level of unemployment to moderate restiveness amongst the populace. Meanwhile, currency in circulation has dropped by 1.8 per cent to N2.78trillion in February from N2.83trillion reported by the CBN in January 2021 Our correspondent gathered that currency in circulation in its Year-to-Year performance gained 27 per cent from N2.19trillion in February 2020. Also, the currency in circulation hits an all-time high at N2.91 trillion in December 2020. Analysts stated that CBN currency mop-up contributed to dwindling currency in circulation. The data by CBN in December however revealed that currency in circulation gained 29.3 per cent and 9.4 per cent Year-on-Year and Month-on-Month growth respectively. The CBN in a report had explained that “The heightened uncertain outlook due to the lockdown encouraged more cash to be held by the public. This was evident from the increase in currency in circulation, compared with the level in the preceding month.” The apex bank reported N2.66 trillion currency in circulation in November, the second-highest in the year under review. According to the apex bank, naira in circulation rose by three per cent to N2.497trillion in October from N2.39trillon reported in September 2020. The data by CBN disclosed that currency in circulation was N2.369trillion in August from N2.39trillion in July 2020. However, the data showed that N2.29trillioon and N2.35trillion was currency in circulation in June and May respectively. In the first quarter of 2020, our correspondent gathered that currency in circulation was hovering around an average of N2.2 trillion. In April, it was N2.3 trillion and March, N2.29trillion. Currency in circulation, however, opened the year at N2.25trillion and closed in February at N2.19trillion The President, Bank Customers Association of Nigeria (BCAN), Dr Uju Ogubunka blamed the informal sector for not embracing a cashless policy of the CBN  and infrastructures in rural areas to increasing currency in circulation in Nigeria. According to him, “Nigeria will continue to have the experience of increasing currency in circulation until everyone can keen into alternative means of transactions settlement beyond cash. “It will take sustained awareness and necessary infrastructure put in place across the nation.  There is a need for rural areas to be captured in the cashless policy of the CBN. “A lot of challenges facing the cashless policy of the CBN. The policy introduced in 2002 is working but it will take some time to see the manifestation.” Speaking from a different perspective, the Chief economist/head of research at PAC research, Mr Moses Ojo attributed the decline in currency in circulation to weak spending by consumers. According to him, “the year is just starting and business activities yet to pickup. However, currency in circulation in March might increase as Nigerians will be celebrating the Easter holiday.”