Joy Obakeye The Non- Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) has urged journalists in the country to brace up for the transforming media landscape in order to better deliver information to their audiences in a post pandemic world. The association also reiterated the need for conventional media to maintain credibility and trust in the information presented, adding that credibility and trust of the community can only be built by the spirit of professionalism of journalists who adhere to the ethics of journalism, which is to present factual information that is well verified. General Secretary of NASU, Prince Peter Adeyemi, stated this while addressing journalists at a two day capacity building/ seminar for Labour Writers’ Association of Nigeria (LAWAN) organised by NASU and held in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State recently. According to him, “journalists are faced with new challenges each year, as the old media landscape continues to evolve into an increasingly fluid digital ecosystem of competing platforms and outlets. Add a global pandemic into the mix and suddenly everyone’s beat has switched over to the coronavirus narrative.” Speaking on the topic, “Empowering Media Practitioners for Future Challenges Reflection on COVID-19”, he explained that, “in a time of uncertainty, especially when the virus has disrupted society, there is at least one thing for sure; it’s already been a unique and exceptional year for journalists and it’s only March. As journalists find themselves strapped for resources, the relationship between Labour Writers and their critical stakeholders, Trade Unions looks to have a very promising future ahead because information is very important and remain vital to any organisation that wants to be at the top of its game.” Adeyemi, who was represented by Comrade Ivor Takor, stressed that “COVID 19 is a human story about health, economics and social relations. We need to put this immediate crisis in the historical context of what has happened to the news industry and to think of what it means for the future of journalism. “Journalism has been through an extraordinary, multifaceted series of changes and they are not all about technology. The whole information ecosystem has changed and so has society. In terms of technology and news, there have been three big shifts.” “First, there was the move online. News Organisations got websites. Secondly, there was the move towards social media. This was much more complicated in the ramifications and in terms of the kind of journalism that was produced and the type of relationship with audience. Thirdly, we are now in a phase where journalism is going to become much more diverse in terms of organizations, and much more devolved in terms of how people get their information. Artificial Intelligence (AI).” ‘To survive, conventional media must be able to maintain credibility and trust in the information presented. This credibility and trust of the community can only be built by the spirit of professionalism of journalists who adhere to the ethics of journalism, which is to present factual information that is well verified. This is a strong offer for print media to be able to survive. The media industry, especially print media, must make changes if it does not want to be marginalized,” he said. The Director of International Press Centre (IPC), Mr. Lanre Arogundade, disclosed that that digital technology has suddenly become the order of the day, and urged journalists to make use of it judiciously. “The Journalist and the Individual you can be in the age of COVID-19 and beyond” stressed that journalists could easily have been replaced by robots. “There is need for them to think out of the box and think of opportunities within the profession. They should also use their talents to generate fund,” he said. He said journalists can venture into businesses if they have what it takes to do it. “They need to look at the risk and challenges before going into business,” he said. Speaking on opportunities in non-oil sector and agriculture, Mr. Godwin Oyefeso, President of Non-Governmental Initiatives Success Edge for Entrepreneurial Development (Seed), urged journalists to venture into businesses that will help them after retirement.