Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno says he is not losing sleep over reports that the state’s lawmakers planned to impeach him. The Chief of Staff to the governor, Hussaini Marte, said Mr Zulum did not attach any seriousness to the House of Assembly’s rumoured impeachment. The assembly had, on Friday, conducted an extraordinary session to debunk the speculation that it was planning to impeach the governor. Mr. Marte made the governor’s position known while addressing lawmakers and other dignitaries at the launch of the Ninth Assembly Magazine and Awards Presentation, organized by the Northern Borno Students’ Association, in collaboration with the assembly. He stated that the governor had a cordial working relationship with the assembly and knew that the lawmakers would not contemplate such a thing. READ ALSO: Donation to Buhari’s state won’t buy you APC ticket Bamgbose attacks Tinubu “The assembly has done exemplary well in terms of relationship with the executive and passage of bills. I have never seen a house working so closely with the executive in the history of Nigeria like this ninth assembly,” Mr explained. He explained that the governor had a cordial working relationship with the assembly and knew that the lawmakers would not contemplate such a thing. “The assembly has done exemplary well in terms of relationship with the executive and passage of bills. I have never seen a house working so closely with the executive in the history of Nigeria like this ninth assembly. “What happened (impeachment rumours) is most unfortunate. I know it’s just mere mischief by someone to cause confusion. “That person will not succeed, and he has not succeeded. I want to inform all members of the assembly that His Excellency has not taken that seriously, as he believes you can’t do anything like that,” Marte asserted. He assured the legislators of commitment by the executive arm to work with them in transforming the state. Also speaking, the Speaker of the assembly, Abdulkarim Lawan, who described the development as mere speculation, said the house had conducted an extraordinary session to debunk it and passed a vote of confidence on the governor. Mr Lawan added that the assembly was poised to checkmating anyone trying to brew confusion between it and the executive arm, noting that the government has directed security agencies to fish out those behind the rumours. The lawmakers, led by the speaker and Deputy Governor Umar Kadafur, were at Maiduguri Airport on Sunday to join the crowd of supporters in welcoming the governor back from Abuja. Mr Kadafur, in his remarks during the rally, said they were there to show solidarity with Mr Zulum and reassure him that the people of the state were behind him.