By Idibia Gabriel Gunmen on Wednesday night invaded the National Institute of Construction Technology, Uromi, Esan Northeast Local Government Area of Edo State and abducted yet-to-be-ascertained number of teachers and students. The development, it was gathered, heightened tension in the area, with parents and guardians storming the institute to ascertain the whereabouts of their children and wards. Edo State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bello Kontongs, confirmed the incident, but said he was awaiting the details from the commander of anti-kidnapping unit of the command. “I have also heard about the incident since yesterday night. There is no detail yet. I am waiting for the officer-in-charge of antikidnapping and be assured that as soon we get details we will let you know,” Kontongs, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said. Meanwhile, barley 12 hours after the presentation of the 2020 security reports, seven more persons have been reportedly killed across three local government areas of Kaduna State during armed bandits’ attacks, the state security update Thursday has revealed. READ ALSO: Police confirm killing of 2 officers by gunmen in C/River A statement by Internal Security and Home Affairs Commissioner, Mr Samuel Aruwan revealed that Security agencies reported that several others were injured, with properties destroyed and cattle rustled in a series of attacks occurring in Igabi, Giwa and Chikun local government areas of the state. It stated that “In the first incident, armed bandits stormed Gangi village, Igabi Local Government, shooting sporadically in what seemed like cattle rustling operation, and in the process four residents were killed. Those killed includes Wada Sulaiman, Amiru Saidu, Yusha’u Mohammadu and Osama Abdulwahab. Two others sustained gunshot injuries and are receiving treatment in hospital. They are Ibrahim Jibrin and Abdulhamid Suleiman. “In the course of the raid, the bandits razed three houses belonging to Mohammad Jibril, Salisu Ya’u and Idris Muhammad. A pick-up truck belonging to one Umaru Saleh was also burnt. “In all, 20 cows belonging to two residents of the village were rustled and herded away by the bandits. “In another incident, armed bandits attacked Marke village in Giwa Local Government Area and killed one Rabiu Haruna. “Similarly, at Kuriga in Chikun Local Government Area, armed bandits killed two people along the Buruku road linking with Birnin Gwari Local Government Area. “The victims were identified as Ibrahim Yahu Birnin Gwari and Haruna Usman. Another victim, Mansur Dada, sustained injuries and is receiving treatment in hospital. Governor Nasir El-Rufai noted the reports with sadness, and sent his condolences to the families of those killed, while praying for the repose of their souls. He also wished the injured citizens a quick recovery.