By Moses Oyediran, Enugu The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, membership registration and revalidation committee for Enugu State, Senator Jonathan Zwingina has stated that with seriousness and commitment South-East geopolitical zone will produce President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor come 2023. Zwingina, speaking in Enugu state at Akpoga Town Hall polling unit, Mbulujodo East, Ward 19, Enugu East Local Government Area of the state at the weekend were a former Secretary to the Enugu State Government, Chief Clement Okwor defected to the APC. He said on the issue of the party’s promise to the South-East, “power is usually not handed over on a platter of gold; it is something you struggled for. “Already there are some States in the APC from South-East, some are dancing around the corner; some have one leg inside, one leg outside, but eventually they will all come in. He expressed happiness over the success of the ongoing registration and revalidation process saying: “The influx of people into the APC is more than we thought. The materials at various polling units have been exhausted because people are trooping in.” “I will also like to thank our chieftain who has just joined us; he came in with his son and other members of his family and his entourage; we want that example; it is an example of courage; he did not do what some people do- they stay in party A and tell their children to go to party B, let’s gamble if party A wins I’m there, if I lose and party B wins, we are also there. This leader did not do that.” He urged the State party Chairman, Nwoye to maintain the peace that has been restored in the party. Also speaking, former Senate President, Nnamani commended Okwor “for the courage he has shown.” He described him as a silent achiever, stressing “he is somebody who commands influence here and beyond; he is a silent achiever. I know what Okwor can do; he did it for me many times. Earlier in a remark, Nwoye stated that the decamping of Chief Okwor into APC was a huge loss for the PDP in the State. He said the membership registration and revalidation exercise had enabled the party to position itself better as the 2023 general election draws closer. Meanwhile, Okwor has pledged to use his supporters and increase the power base of the APC. He said he was glad to be “in a party that’s organized, a party with the political will to do good. “I’m in a party that’s there to change things that have gone wrong in Nigeria, though, it may be difficult now, but with time, they will get it right.” Daily Times reports that Okwor, who is also a former Head of Service and former Commissioner for Education at different times in the State. Chieftains of the APC, who received Okwor included the representative of the South-East in the APC National Caretaker Committee, Senator Ken Nnamani, chairman of the APC in Enugu State, Dr. Ben Nwoye, among others.