By Tom Garba, Yola Senator Ishaku Abbo who is representing Adamawa Northern Senatorial District said the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Adamawa state under the leadership of Rt Hon Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri has caused wanton destruction of properties belonging to the APC party including his campaign office in Mubi. The senator while condemning the heinous act said the destruction is nothing than a direct declaration of war on the zone in need of the peace that suffered many Boko Haram attacks, according to him they have no option than to defend themselves as an opposition party in the Zone. Senator Abbo went down memory lane and recalled that the present Governor of the State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri enjoyed APC’s magnanimous spirit of peace during the 2019 general election who did his campaign without facing any molestation or attacks by APC. According to him, Governor Fintiri spent five days in Mubi, the home town of the immediate past Governor, Senator Muhammadu Umaru Jibrilla Bindow peacefully did his campaign with nothing bad was done to him but worried to see him (Fintiri) beating the political drums of war two years to 2023 general elections. He worried that PDP in the state on two separate occasions attacked APC by destroying their properties in Mubi,he demanded an apology from PDP, the ruling party in the state. He revealed also that the election of 2019 APC was a susceptible party that can be rigged out and election results of Toungo Local Government would have comfortable change but the whole process was allowed to be credible by APC because of the peaceful nature of the party. Abbo in a video posted to his Facebook official page said is aware of what has happened in a day broad light that APC offices and properties were destroyed in less than one hour the Governor entered Mubi. “Today Governor Fintiri entered Mubi and My office was attacked in broad daylight by PDP Thugs for the second time. “People of Mubi have labored so hard to restore peace to our land after its invasion in 2014 by Boko Haram. Vigilante groups and some Gun-wielding youths escorted the attackers.” Abbo said He said as a leader and the highest political office holder from that zone is aware of the provocations, calling on his supporters to take no step until further notice. He however said that the Mubi zone is traditionally an area belonging to APC considering the elected officeholders under the party and for that they cannot cheapen it away to few minority groups. “I want to say that Mubi North, Mubi South, and Maiha have been traditionally an APC strong support base. We won’t fold our hands and watch the minority few that could not win their polling units to oppress us the majority. “I want to be categorical clear on telling you this, I’m saying it without mincing words, we will not give up an inch of our land, that’s our inheritance, we will not give up to intimidation that is our home, your actions have murdered peace.” He said Ishaku while calling on all his supporters and APC loyalists to remain camp, he said security agencies should expedite action by arresting the perpetrators. “If impunity is not arrested impunity will continue, lawlessness will continue, people will continue to live in a state of anarchy”. He warned He further said that if PDP did not apologize for the destruction of APC properties they will be left with no option other than to defend themselves. “I want my supporters to wait until further notice and I’m calling on the security agencies to live up to their responsibilities by arresting the miscreants who go about the wanton destruction of public assets in a day broad light.” He said Recall that Fintiri was in Mubi last Saturday for the combined 5th-12th convocation ceremony of the state-owned university where eleven thousand six hundred and twenty-five graduates received degrees and certificates respectively.