Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu has reacted to the victory of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the just concluded Aba North and Aba South federal constituency bye-election on Saturday. Daily Times gathered that the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, candidate for the Aba North/South Federal Constituency bye-election, Chimobi Iheanyichukwu Ebisike, was declared winner of the Saturday polls by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). According to the INEC’s Returning Officer, the PDP candidate, Chimaobi Ebisike polled a total of 10322 votes to defeat his closest challenger and candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mascot Uzor Kalu who scored 3674 votes. READ ALSO: Buhari, President Idriss Deby of Chad in bilateral talks Ebisike will now fill the vacancy caused by the death of Ossy Prestige, the constituency’s former representative who died in Germany for undisclosed illness. Reacting to the outcome of the bye-election, Governor Ikpeazu in a press statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Onyebuchi Ememanka, on Sunday, described the resounding victory of the PDP as a clear vindication of the hard work his administration has put into the repositioning of Aba. The Governor stated that the bye-election was a first-hand opportunity for the people of Aba to pass judgment on the efforts of his administration in rebuilding the broken walls of the Enyimba City. He thanked God Almighty for his grace which made PDP victory possible. “For all intents and purposes, this election was more appropriately, a referendum by the people of Aba on our work in the city. Our government has invested lots of effort in providing critical infrastructure in Aba and it is heartwarming to see that indeed, the people truly appreciate our efforts. It is also a clear message that our people detest injustice. The people of Aba completely endorsed our message that it was only just, fair and proper to allow the aborigines of Aba an opportunity to represent their own people for the first time in 22 years of our democracy at the National Assembly”.