Nkiru Nwagbo, Awka The Managing Director Anambra state signage and Advertisement Agency Chief Jude Emecheta yesterday described as untrue the allegation that his agency has been pulling down the campaign billboards of Sen Ifeanyi Ubah contending that he( Ubah)overshot the number of billboards paid for. Emecheta further explained that the old billboards which Sen Ifeanyi Ubah is yet to complete the payment for the old billboards he mounted during his senatorial election. He denied that Gov Willie Obiano ordered dismounting the billboards as was alleged by the senator. Ubah recently had through his media aide, Kamen Ogbonna, accused the governor of sending political thugs to destroy his billboards in various parts of the state despite paying millions of naira into the state coffers. According to Ogbonna, “Already, 12 billboards, fully paid for and erected in several locations across the state, have been pulled down on the orders of an obviously jittery state government that has failed in its duty and social contract to Ndi Anambra.” But State government through the ANSAA Managing Director said that the agency does not deal with individuals but advertising firms noting that when Sen Ubah called his attention on a matter that he redirected him to seek advert companies with which the agency can interface with. According to Emecheta” Billboards are managed by Advertisement Companies with strict supervision by ANSAA to avoid cluster and encumbrances.” ” So, when the firms Dr. Uba contracted came to the agency for approval, they paid for ten adverts and we approved the advertorials but the senator went against the agreed number and erected more than 10.” ” We have requested the agents to come with their manifest and show us where all the boards are and their locations for inspection” ” The board by Nkpor Old Rd is owned by ESMIC LTD. NUMAC is in charge of the Bridge Panel between Upper Iweka and Head Bridge. We have an agreement with them and they complied. You can verify”. “Again, in front of the state library, Marketing and Media manages the board there and we had an agreement with them that the place approved for them cannot be used to run opposition adverts inside a government institution. Dr. Uba never mentioned to them that he is putting up a political advert. “Global Outdoor by Police Headquarters, Awka have outstanding with us, so no advert can run there for now. “Rokana by Savour Onitsha is owing to the agency, all Rokana billboards are encumbered. No advert can run in their boards until we settle with them.” ” By Immigration, all the billboards there were destroyed by miscreants. Even our own billboard was also affected. We don’t destroy anybody’s billboard. We don’t deal with individuals but advert firms “. Speaking further, the Managing Director informed that the Senator still has outstanding with the agency following advertorials he used during his 2019 Anambra South senatorial election. ” We don’t want to run the same scenario we had with him during his senatorial campaign. Senator Uba paid for only a few political adverts but went ahead to flood the whole senatorial district with campaign/political posters. The agency billed him and sent the details to him. Till date, he’s yet to clear same. We cannot tolerate that again”, the MD declared. Emecheta warned other persons who are seeking for the governorship seat in Anambra to always follow due process and avoid shortcuts.