Moses Oyediran, Enugu The All Progressive Congress (APC) Enugu State chapter has joined other Stakeholders in condemning the recent controversial bill proposing life pensions for ex-governors of the state and their deputies. He said that the Executive bill which had passed through first reading in the House of Assembly before it was stepped down by the lawmakers, following public outcry, showed that the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state is insensitive to the plight of the suffering of the masses. Caretaker Committee Chairman of APC in Enugu State, Dr. Ben Nwoye, stated this yesterday while receiving Princess Adaeze Nwoye, Udeji, daughter of late Monarch of Emudo Nenwe Community, in her Nenwe ward 3 in Aninri Council area of the state into the party. Nwoye called on the electorates in the area and the state at large to embrace APC noting that with such an anti-human proposed bill, it has become clear and obvious that PDP as a party does not wish the citizens of the state well, or have their interests at heart. “You can agree with me that slowly, and steadily, the Enugu people are rejecting the PDP,” Nwoye declared. The APC chairman urged the electorates and progressive minds in the state to join the APC enmass in its ongoing registration/ revalidation exercise. Nwoye noted that the party is committed to addressing the political and economic challenges facing the nation. He salute the courage of Princess Udeji, for deeming it fit to identify with the APC, describing her action as a wise political decision. “On behalf of the National Caretaker Committee Chairman of our great party, I wish to present to you this broom symbol of our party The Chairman noted that Aninri Council area has top party Chieftains like former Military of the governor of Gombe state, Group Captain Joe Orji, a member of the Revenue Mobilization and Fiscal Commission, Mrs. Maria Aniobi, among others. Earlier in a brief remark, Princess Udeji, said she joined APC with a view to encouraging women full participation in the party so that the womenfolk can rightly get their fair share in the party. She, however, called on women to join APC enmass in the state, stressing that with total commitment, the party will get to its desired destination in the state.