By Mutiat Alli As Christians around the world celebrate the Easter season, UK-based Nigerian Gospel singer, writer and visual artist, Folashade Olukoya, has urged people to imbibe the tenent of Christ and give peace a chance in a troubled world. The singer who is also an author disclosed that the world is currently going through a turmoil occasioned by ravaging coronavirus, adding that as world leaders try to find lasting solution, people need to show love to one another and give peace a space in their lives. The celebration of Easter according to the Folashade should remind the people about how much God loves His children hence the reason for “us to endeavour to show love to ourselves and give back to the people by the way of empowerment and upliftment.” Speaking on her delight at creating empowerment for women and making their lives meaningful with her works which remain her mainstay in the gospel ministry, Folashade added that supporting women to reach their potential through mentoring and training would add value to the womenfolk. READ ALSO: Gunmen attack Soludo, kill police guards With a career in fashion, arts, pastoral care and women empowerment, Folashade said she wants to keep using her God-given talent and abilities to provide suitable solutions that would enhance the skills of other women and support their growth and development. Folashade, who apart from her music commitment is also passionate about writing and painting and has authored about 10 books, maintained that women must expand their horizon to fit into the fast-demanding society. Speaking further, said hinted that she has a deep-seated love for arts and drawings, saying she has illustrated more than 250 publications for her dear husband Dr Daniel Olukoya the general overseas mountain of fire and miracle ministries. “As a lover of arts, music and women empowerment, I realized that I can use my medium to encourage women around the world that they could do more than they think they could do. This is why I am passionate about giving them hope,” she said. Also speaking about her foundation that caters for vulnerable women, Folashade added that “my MFM women’s foundation offers a lifeline to uneducated, vulnerable and homeless women, allowing them to see and work to their full potential and providing for their families.” As a lover of music who can sing a variety of styles including contemporary, gospel and classical music, Folashade hinted that there is a lot to come from her as the year continues to unfold.