It was learned on Wednesday that Inspector-General (IG) Usman Alkali Baba’s order on the immediate removal of senior police officers from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is in line with Justice Isa Ayo Salami’s panel of inquiry’s recommendations. According to the Justice Salami panel, the department employed approximately 850 police officers and men. However, the IG stated that his directive was based on the force’s current operational needs. The panel concluded that the EFCC needed a break from police power. It has been learned that the police grip will be whittled down, allowing qualified EFCC cadets to take control of the anti-graft agency. The IG requested the EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, to release all senior officers from the rank of Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) and above attached to the commission in a letter dated April 15, 2021, signed by his Principal Staff Officer, Idowu Owohunwa. Although the IGP cited operational necessity as the reason for the withdrawal, our correspondent learned that it was in part in response to Salami’s panel’s recommendations. A source said: “The withdrawal of senior police officers from the EFCC is in line with the recommendations of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the activities of the commission. The IGP directive is part of the gradual implementation of the report of Salami’s panel. “They said the deployment of police officers and men is contrary to the EFCC Establishment Act 2004. “The panel was told that there are as many as 850 police officers and men in EFCC because of investigation, raid, and enforcement of court order. “While some members felt the number was on the high side, others described the figure as moderate in view of the huge number of investigations being conducted. “Some of the senior cadets in EFCC asked Salami Panel to do away with the police in EFCC to enable them to have a steady career growth. “While appearing before the panel, some queried why only the police officers have been managing EFCC contrary to the EFCC Establishment Act 2004. “The panel said the 850 police officers and men are too many in the anti-graft agency which has its own trained cadets. The IG requested that all affected officers report to Force Headquarters yesterday “for further instructions,” according to the letter. The letter read in part:  “I write to extend the warmest regards of the Inspector-General of Police and to inform the Chairman that the Inspector-General of Police has directed the withdrawal of all Senior Police Officers from the rank of Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) and above attached to your agency. “This decision is informed by the current operational requirements of the Force. You are accordingly requested to kindly direct the immediate release of the concerned Officers who are to collectively report to the undersigned on Wednesday, April 21, 2021, at 1000hrs for further instructions.” “The detailed nominal roll of all police officers attached to the EFCC, including their date of transfer and designations in the department for the purpose of reviewing our records,” the Inspector General ordered. Other outlets, including former police officers, criticized Salami’s panel’s recommendation to ease the police out of the EFCC. Another source said: “Such an advisory to put EFCC’s woes on the police is unfair. In the last 17 years, EFCC recorded landmark achievements under the leadership of senior retired and serving police officers. All the past and present chairmen have won international awards. Police officers and men are not liabilities to EFCC. “These same police detectives gave on-the-job training to the cadets. The essence of bringing police officers is to put the cadets through an investigation. There are still investigative manpower gaps to be filled in EFCC. “The EFCC as it now does not have an enforcement unit. Policemen were seconded to the anti-graft agency to give back up during operations and when enforcement is required.”