On the occasion of this year’s Easter celebrations, President Muhammadu Buhari has sent a letter to the country’s Christians. The President’s Spokesman, Femi Adesina, wrote in a message that a year ago, “our celebrations were somewhat subdued, as we fought the impact of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic in most of our major cities.” “The restrictions meant that our brethren could not attend traditional church services as they would have wished. I salute their resilience and understanding. “Today, we are able to congregate and worship together, cautiously.” According to the declaration, President Buhari recognized and appreciated the sacrifices made by our physicians, nurses, and other frontline health staff, who “have made the difference in saving lives and preventing the spread of the virus.” “I thank Nigerians who have religiously adhered to various interventions to curb the spread of COVID-19, including regular hand washing; safe distancing, wearing of face masks, and embrace of vaccination. “We are united in our belief that if we do the right things, make the right decisions and act responsibly, the pandemic, like others before it, will no longer be a threat.” The Easter celebration, according to Mr. President, is an opportunity to restore hope and confidence, show love and gratitude to one another, and not to despair, considering the difficulties of the moment. “As a government, we will continue to ensure that the weak, the poor and the underprivileged in our midst are not abandoned. “We have reached out with palliative care even in the midst of dwindling resources; we have tried our best to provide support to families and businesses affected at this time. “That is the spirit of Easter. The spirit of Faith. The spirit of Belief. The spirit of Hope.” The President also praised the nation’s law enforcement and military forces for continuing to confront evildoers even in the dead of night in order to keep us safe. “I am convinced that the new resolve within the security personnel to make sure that insecurity in the country becomes part of our history will come to pass. “We should not allow the antics of a few mischief mongers to fragment the unity and faith that the vast majority of citizens of this country cherish and believe in. As I’ve said before, we are better and stronger as one nation under God. “I congratulate our brothers and sisters once again on this occasion and wish everyone a Happy Easter celebration.”