Apostle Paul Okikijesu of the Christ Apostolic Miracle Ministry has made public some prophecies he claims God revealed to him about Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Ministers Chibuike Amaechi and Lai Mohammed, and the Acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba. According to him, the Senate President should avoid bills that threaten the country’s future and the future of Nigerian youths. “Thus says the Lord: People will pressure him [Lawan] to sign laws that will kill Nigeria and the youth’s future. Since the impending crisis will burst, he must be vigilant and prayerful,” he said in a statement to DAILY POST on Monday. “Thus says the Lord: This is a delicate time; the Senate President must not allow foreigners (hosts of hell) to take hold of Nigeria and enslave it,” he said. The cleric went on to say that the Minister of Transformation, Rotimi Amaechi, will betray the former Rivers State Governor. “Thus says the Lord: During the months of April and May 2021, he should pray. He would deceive the people he trusted. “Thus says the Lord: He should be cautious; some people will seek his life because they no longer desire his presence. Rotimi’s life is inconveniencing certain people. He should pray against those who will come after him so that he does not die or fall unexpectedly,” he added. “Thus says the Lord: He would be good if he listens to the voice of I the Lord rather than that of humans,” Okikijesu said of Usman Baba, the newly decorated Inspector-General of Police. “The I.G. Baba will be removed if he rejects the voice of God. Thus says the Lord: If he rejects the voice of I the Lord, he will be removed from office. “He should be cautious as from April 17th until May 29th, 2021; so that he will not lose something good that he can never recover or see again. READ ALSO: ‘Azman incidents exposed lapses in aviation sector’ “He should use God’s wisdom to provide security/protection for the country, so that his appointment will not be to harm/hurt the innocent while sparing the wicked/evil doers; in a manner that will cause him to be removed abruptly from office.” On Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Okikijesu warned him to change his ways or “he will become an evil story.” “Thus says the Lord: Inform the Minister of Information to repent, and turn to I the Lord; else his case will become an evil story in Nigeria. He should utilize the wisdom of I, the Lord,” he added. “He should not allow anyone to push him to make a speech that can hurt/harm the country and ruin the future of the youths. I, the Lord is waiting for his repentance, and he should move closer to Me. “As from April 21st until June 17th, 2021; he must be honest, else his case will become an evil story perpetually,” he said.