In a statement released in defense of the Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal, Umar Danladi, who allegedly assaulted a security guard at Banex Plaza in Wuse, Abuja, the Code of Conduct Tribunal’s spokesman, Ibraheem Al-Hassan, said he was told to use the term “Biafran Boys.” Alhassan also clarified why his argument was riddled with grammatical errors. He said that he did not edit the statement that he typed on his phone before publishing it. His response comes in the wake of social media outrage over the statement’s grammatical errors. “All the grammatical errors and whatnot were not noted,” he said. I didn’t proofread it because I was writing it on my Android (phone) while driving. He went on to say that the announcement was rushed and that he regretted it. He said, “There has never been a problem with my statements, and as I speak with you, I am regretting my decision.” “There’s a flaw in that statement. In reality, we’re on the verge of disowning it. We’d like to retract the article since it was written under duress. That, I must admit, is why there are so many structural contradictions, language structure defects, and, again, some of the phrases used. I followed instructions.” At Banex Plaza in Wuse, Abuja, Danladi, the CCT manager, was captured on camera violently assaulting a security guard. READ ALSO: 50,000 youth not 50 million needed to tackle insecurity in Nigeria – Tinubu Danlandi was seen slapping and kicking the yet-to-be-identified security guard in a five-minute video that has gone viral online, as police officers accused of being associated with him tried to restrain him from assaulting the guard. On Tuesday, March 30, 2021, Al-Hassan released the following statement in support of Umar: “Press Release from the Bureau of Code of Conduct” Nigerians demand that CCT Chairman Justice Umar be imprisoned and prosecuted for publicly assaulting a security guard at Abuja Plaza. “Our attention was drawn to a story from an online publication that included a video cliff claiming that Hon Chairman, Justice Danladi Y. Umar attacked a Security Guard at Banex Plaza. “To begin with, he has visited the said plaza on a regular basis for the past 18 years for shopping and phone repairs, and during that period he has never had any disagreements with anyone. “Unfortunately, yesterday’s squabbles started over a vacant packing lot, which Chairman discovered and which was directly opposite a shop where he decided to make a purchase and fix his phone. When the young Security guard saw him, he demanded that Chairman not pack his car in that particular empty room, but Chairman asked why, and the security guard couldn’t convince Chairman, even though Chairman didn’t obstruct the security guard. “Again, if Chairman had gone there to cause trouble or threaten anyone, as suggested in the study, he would have gone there alone with his younger brother in full official regalia. “The policemen seen in the video cliff were not the Chairman’s police team; they were policemen patrolling the plaza who interfered in the first instance before the arrival of the Maitama Police Station’s police team. The few police officers in the complex were apparently overwhelmed by crowds of BIAFRAN boys throwing matches and shape objects at his vehicle, causing a deep cut and dislocation in one of his fingers, as well as damage to his car, which included shattering his windscreen. “When he attempted to flee the scene, these same miscreants, including a BIAFRAN child, ordered the gate to be closed, assaulting him until a police team from Maitama police station arrived. “When an event like this occurs, sympathy is normally directed toward the low personalities. Though unfortunate, as I previously said, it should not have occurred.”