Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has promised Nigerians that insecurity will soon be a thing of the past with the renewed vigour of the defence and intelligence chiefs. He also cautioned Nigerians to be wary of mischief-makers, who were bent on causing disunity in the country and promoting ethnic and religious intolerance in the country. The President, according to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, stated this in an Easter message to Nigerians. The President recalled that a year ago, in most of the major cities, celebrations were somewhat subdued, as the country battled the effect of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic. He said, “The restrictions meant that our brethren could not attend traditional church services as they would have wished. I salute their resilience and understanding. “Today, we are able to congregate and worship together, cautiously.” President Buhari deeply acknowledged and appreciated the sacrifices of doctors, nurses, and other frontline health workers, who made a difference in saving lives and ensuring the reduction of the spread of the virus. “I thank Nigerians who have religiously adhered to various interventions to curb the spread of COVID-19, including regular hand washing; safe distancing, wearing of face masks, and embrace of vaccination. “We are united in our belief that if we do the right things, take the right decisions and act responsibly, the pandemic, like others before it, will no longer be a threat,” he said. As Christians celebrate Easter, the President said it was an opportunity to renew hope and faith, show love and appreciation to one another, and not to despair, no matter the challenges of the period. He said, “As a government, we will continue to ensure that the weak, the poor, and the underprivileged in our midst are not abandoned. “We have reached out with palliative care even in the midst of dwindling resources; we have tried our best to provide support to families and businesses affected at this time. “That is the spirit of Easter. The spirit of Faith. The spirit of Belief. The spirit of Hope.” The President commended law enforcement and military personnel, who he noted had continued to confront evil-minded individuals through the darkest of nights to keep the country safe. “I am convinced that the new resolve within the security personnel to make sure that insecurity in the country becomes part of our history will come to pass. “We should not allow the antics of a few mischief mongers to fragment the unity and faith that the vast majority of citizens of this country cherish and believe in. As I’ve said before, we are better and stronger as one nation under God. “I congratulate our brothers and sisters once again on this occasion and wish everyone a Happy Easter celebration.”