The Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) has informed the public that there is no danger to the nation’s airports in any way, following widespread concern about an internal memo. It only sent an advisory to security agencies, instructing them to work with airport management to improve existing security measures at the country’s airports, according to the statement. The advisory was identified by ONSA as a “routine threat assessment” to ensure that all relevant agencies were prepared. Mr. Z.M. Usman, the Head of Strategic Communication in the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), made the clarifications in a statement. On Thursday, the advisory was leaked to all security agencies, causing panic among aviation staff and passengers at all airports. However, ONSA assured the public and all aviation stakeholders that the country’s airports are secured. “The Office of the National Security Adviser has been drawn to rumors of a danger to the nation’s airports from internal government correspondence,” the statement said. “The correspondence was a routine threat assessment to ensure the preparedness of agencies and not meant for public dissemination. “In the period covered by the correspondence, threat analysis identified the need to advise airports’ management nationwide to upgrade existing security measures around the nation’s airports. “Regrettably, the unauthorised release of this advisory is likely to raise fear among airport users home and abroad. “Accordingly, this statement is issued to reassure the public and all aviation stakeholders of the safety of our airports. “The security and intelligence services will continue to monitor security threats and provide the assessment and timely advice required by airports’ management to continuously upgrade security measures in the airports.” ONSA responded to the Ministry of Interior’s leak of an April 15th memo to one of the security agencies, which was signed by Director (Joint Services), P. O. Egbodo. In addition, the leak caused concern in some airports and among stakeholders. “I am directed to forward herewith letter from the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) with Ref. No. NSA/366/S dated 6 April, 2021 on the above subject and to request you to liaise/partner with all Airports Management nationwide and other stakeholders to upgrade the existing security measures across the country’s airports,” the memo reads in part. “Please accept the assurances of the warm regards of the Minister.”