Kamarudeen Ogundele, Abuja The South-West Zonal Caretaker Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has nullified the suspension of the chairman of the party in Ondo East Local Government Area, Mr. Olaniyan Ifedayo; his Deputy, Olu Falekulo, and seven other members of the local government executives. Others are Mrs. Victoria Akintunde (Women Leader), Idowu Henry (Youth Leader), Chief Costa Oladehin (Auditor), Mr. Omoniyi Bandoke (Legal Adviser), Mr. Akinkuowo Gibson (Asst. PRO), Tomori Nathaniel (Ex-Officio), and Mrs. Adegbulugbe Christiana (Ex-Officio). The Zonal Caretaker Committee said their suspension by the State Working Committee fell short of procedures as laid down in the party’s constitution because they were denied a fair hearing. The Caretaker Committee, in a letter signed by the Zonal Secretary, Daisi Akintan, and addressed to the Ondo State Chairman of the party, Fatai Adams, a copy of which was made available to newsmen, called for restraining and urged the chairman to always ensure that his actions were in consonance with all extant laws of the party. A copy of the March 28 letter was sent to the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, and others. The letter read in part, “Consequently, the Committee diligently considered their complaint, relying on Section 57(6), which states that ‘any decision taken against a member who has not been informed of the charges against him or has not been given any opportunity of defending himself, shall be null and void.’ “It was confirmed that they were arbitrarily suspended by the State Working Committee without any preliminary hearing, as demanded by the Constitution. This action falls short of procedures as laid down by the Party’s Constitution. “Therefore, in exercising its powers as stated in Section 61(2), the Zonal Caretaker Committee has therefore set aside their purported suspension from the party forthwith. “Also, it was brought to the notice of the Zonal Caretaker Committee that nine members of the Executives of the Ondo East Local Government were transformed into Caretaker Committee to run the affairs of the party in Ondo East Local Government. “This decision is in contravention of the Party’s Constitution and is hereby declared null and void. “As we have maintained, the Ondo State Working Committee is advised to exercise restraint and ensure always that all its actions are in consonance with all relevant laws of the party, especially now that the party is trying to foster unity among its members. “Most importantly, please note that with the reconciliatory efforts of the party’s National Reconciliation Committee, the State Working Committee should be mindful of any action that is capable of causing further disaffection and despondency among members.”