By Tom Okpe The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) rose from its 9th meeting at the Party’s National Secretariat in Abuja, on Friday April 9, 2021 passing vote of confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari. At the meeting, attended by almost all the Caretaker Committee members and chaired by the Chairman and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, issues affecting the party were discussed, including the forthcoming Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Area Council Elections, a quarterly review of the activities of the CECPC and an evaluation of the ongoing Party membership registration, revalidation and update exercise. Other issues are the state affairs of the Party, and à review of the interventions of the Federal Government in the face of security challenges in some parts of the country. According to a communique signed by the National Secretary, CECPC John James Akpanudoedehe after the meeting, the CECPC resolved to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for the counteractions taken against the spate of insecurity in some parts of the country, and pass a vote of confidence on Mr. President also, to urge leaders at all levels to show restraint in comments that do not unite the country in the face of insecurity. READ ALSO: Ethnic, tribal tensions signposts APC’s lack of capacity to govern – PDP Govs It further agreed to set up a Registration Appeal Committee to consider complaints or dissatisfaction that may arise from party members on the conduct of the membership registration, revalidation and update exercise and in line with approved templates and guidelines for the excercise. Also, in accordance with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) according to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) guidelines, to adopt the Party’s guidelines, timetable and schedule of activities for the conduct of Area Councils Election in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The Meeting also commended the Chairman of the CECPC, Mai Mala Buni for his peaceful mien and dexterity, which has endeared high-profile defections to the Party. The resolutions are in line with the commitment of the CECPC to implement all decisions of the National Executive Committee (NEC), particularly the important task of ensuring internal democracy, repositioning and rebuilding the party. Recall that the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo-led APC tripartite committee also met on Wednesday 7th April as part of its mandate to strengthen internal democracy, and establish the APC as a truly progressive political platform delivering good governance to Nigerians.