By Val Okara Following frequent breaches of peace in the South East, the governors of the zone and others yesterday held a security summit in Owerri, the Imo State capital, and resolved to form a joint security outfit named “Ebubeagu.” In a 15-point communique at the end of the summit, the governors said the formation of the joint security outfit with its headquarters in Enugu is to coordinate the vigilantes in the zone. The summit condemned terrorism and banditry in any part of Nigeria, particularly in the South East. The meeting further condemned the burning of police stations, violent attacks on custodial centres with the unlawful release of inmates, and the killings including security personnel, natives, farmers and headsmen. The five South East states resolved to be on the same page with the Federal Government’s on the issue of security challenges in the country. “To this end, the meeting makes it absolutely clear that the South east will stand resolutely with the federal government to fight terrorists and bandits to a finish“. According to the communique the political leadership in the South East resolved to bring together all the arsenals at their command, as one united zone, to fight and flush out criminals and terrorist from the zone. The communique reads in parts, “that the summit resolved that to achieve this, there is a need to galvanize all the relevant stakeholders in the south east, the political class, the business community, the bureaucrats and the intelligentsia to provide all necessary support to security operatives in the five south east states to ensure total success in the fight against criminality in the zone. “That the heads of all the security agencies in the South East have resolved to exchange intelligence in a seamless, effective new order that will help to checkmate crime in the zone. “That to fast track crime-busting in the south east, the heads of security agencies have been mandated to draw up a comprehensive list of their logistics and material needs for sustainable success in the fight against criminality, for the immediate provision by the leadership of the South East. “That a committee made up of security personnel, government officials and relevant stakeholders be set up to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the south east joint security platform. READ ALSO: Look out for crescent of Ramadan from Monday – Sultan “To applaud the initiative of the South east security summit and to make it a statutory summit that will convene every quarter while its hosting shall rotate among the five south east states”. South East governors requested the Acting IGP to stop the influx of IGP monitoring units but to allow cps and state and Zonal commands to handle their cases. The meeting approve that the acting IGP and other security chiefs do invite the leadership of Ohaneze Ndigbo and CAN to find out the reason for increasing insecurity of the South East. The summit agreed that military policing in the South East should be adequately funded and become effective. The meeting agreed that open grazing has been banned and security agency should implement the ban. The meeting encouraged a peaceful coexistence of farmers and headers to allow Governors to succeed in the fight against criminality.