By Tom Okpe The Artifacts Rescuers Association of Nigeria, ARAN held its Annual General Meeting, AGM in Abuja on Tuesday, appointing new officials that will conduct affairs of the association for the next 3 years. The association, a vendor for the Nigeria Museum Commission, responsible for rescuing the nation’s stolen artifacts from different quarters, for onward submission to the Nigeria Museum Commission, NMC the only recognized body responsible for transacting such business in the country. The AGM which was attended by its Board of Trustees, BoT Chairman, HRH Yohana Akaito, Effiong Jonah, Bashiru Ali, Rev Akindele John, CC Okwuosa, Ayodele Wale, Prince Ignatius Okonkwo and Olayemi Sarafa Adebayo was also attended by former Presidents of the association, including George Agbo and state coordinators. READ ALSO: Gunmen attack Soludo, kill police guards The meeting deliberated on issues affecting the association especially, aggrieved members with a view to bringing them on board. It also attended to funds owed by the Federal Government and the possible means of payment within a short period of time. The outgoing Chairman, Obalosa Bamidele Louis in his account of stewardship said his team of Executive achieved much during the period, promising that payment of its funds by the Federal Government will be achieved soon. He said the team paid courtesy calls to helmsmen of the Ministry of Information and Culture with the aim of consolidating already existing mutual relationship and cooperation between ARAN and NCMM. “This visit gave us colourful atmosphere that led to the presentation of ARAN proposals to the Ag Director General, Barr Emeka Enuagbu. “I summoned the courage to inaugurate a 6 man assessment committee comprising, Agbo George, Peter Ezeh, Prince Ignatius Okonkwo, Alhaji Bashir Ali, Stanley Guobadia and my humble self. “The committee worked tirelessly to facilitate assessment and subsequent payment. This committee made sure that aims and objectives of the association were well pursued,” he said. The association however, went into election after many deliberations, electing the incumbent President, Obalosa Bamidele Louis as its National President for a second tenure and Stanley Guobadia as the General Secretary unopposed, with other positions pending till April 13, when it will be contested and voted for. In his acceptance speech, Louis commended the BoT and ARAN members for finding him worthy to serve the association the second time as the 4th President. “I remain humble and honoured by the confidence you reposed in me, but i must say, i cannot do it alone, but with your support. If you play your part, i promise, i will not let you down,” he said. He urged all aggrieved members to bury their differences and join forces so that they can make it together to the promise land, saying; “I can only achieve this noble goal through your sacrifices and encouragement.” He urged members to assist the new cabinet by prompt payment of dues and other relevant commitments adding, without these, our survival will be in jeopardy.”