Tom Garba, Yola The traditional title holder of Dan Maje Adamawa, in Adamawa emirate council, Ahmadu Hamman Nasara, has expressed deep reservations over what he called governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri’s moves to politicize the traditional institution in order to achieve his innate political desire of despoiling the revered institution. Nasara who is also the Chiroman Jimeta, in a phone chat with our reporter said, such a move is antithetical to peace and capable of creating significant disquiet and bad blood among the diverse people living in the state. Nasara who said it is diabolic to mix traditional institution with politics, called for a change of heart by the government so as to give peace a chance as he noted that, the action is obverse to Nigeria’s extant constitutional provisions. ” The state government is trying to introduce a new contraption called the “district head forum” which is alien to Nigeria’s extant constitution in order to achieve a predetermined agenda of debasing our revered traditional institution. ” This plot is an attempt at abusing, debasing, and desecrating the revered institution. It is also an attempt to cause implosion, unrest, and disharmony among the diverse peoples of Adamawa State. “It is an I’ll wind that blows no good. We will work against it because it is obverse to Nigeria’s laws and even against the spirit of communal harmony. It is clearly done to whittle down and bastardize the traditional institution by some politicians who want to desecrate it for self-serving ends,” he said. When reminded that the Nigerian constitution has given people the leeway to form groups and associations to promote their interest in a democratic setting, Nasara said, Nigeria’s constitution is against the formation of any group or association that will promote mischief and disunity. “The Nigerian constitution has provided room for people to form associations and groups if these associations will not promote disunity, mischief, and misunderstanding among the people. ” The birth of the district heads forum is clearly an attempt to bring disrepute to the traditional institution by the fifth columnist who is hell-bent in destroying the fabric of cohesion, unity, and respect which the traditional institution represents. Such a move if allowed is capable of adding fuel to the raging fire of disharmony in our land. ” So as far as we are concerned, the forum is dead on arrival as it is clearly a move to set the traditional institution on a collision course and we will not allow such unconstitutional antics to thrive whoever is behind its formation,” he said. Efforts to speak with governor Fintiri’s press secretary, Humwhashi Wonosikou on the issue proved abortive as calls directed to his phone were not connecting. Similarly, a Whatapp message to his line was not responded to as at the time of going to press.