By Mutiat Alli Popular Nigerian comedian cum actor, MC Makopolo has made Nigeria proud with the recent release of the first-ever prank movie in African cinemas. MC Makopolo’s Prank Movie: The Human Part Saga produced by Chigan Madu is described as a real-life prank experience and one-of-its-kind- in Africa. The movie which hit the Cinemas on Friday, April 16 has achieved ground breaking records in Nigerian cinemas. Few days ago, all cast and crew members of the much talked about movie began rounds of cinema meet and greet. Since the release of the movie in the Cinemas, fans and supporters of MC Makopolo have been trooping in numbers to see the movie for the first time. The review on the movie has also been amazing with viewers giving it tombs up, applauding the producers of the movie project for such an excellent creativity. Appreciating his fans and teeming followers on social media platforms, MC Makopolo urged all to continue to support his brand by hitting the cinema to see the much-talked-about movie. READ ALSO: SERAP blasts National Broadcasting Commission for suspending ChannelsTV, threatens lawsuit- IPOB “We at pranks Nigeria ( MC Makopolo) want to use this time to thank everyone who has in one way or another shown us endless love; from the shooting of the project down to the release party on 15th of April. From the cast and crew down to the Tmy Digital Media to the management of White deck where the release party was held.” “Now that the movie is out in cinemas we would appreciate and encourage you all to go and watch it. This would go a long way in giving this project meaning.” The Prank Movie: The Human Part Saga features top budding actors in the likes of Nony Moni, Akindoju April, Jason (aka Cubana White Lion), and James Brown Obialor. Others are Papii J. Ameh, Shima Elizabeth, bikini model and Face of Universe Nigeria Tourism, Tersoo Doris Dooshima, known as Natarshabarbie on Instagram, and also an award-winning media personality and host, Melissa, known popularly on social media as @thekweeenmelissa.