By Tom Okpe Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives has stated that Ndudi Elumelu’s motion on Isa Pantami, Minister of Communications and Digital economy was properly presented on the floor of the Green Chamber, insisting that the Minister must resign his present position. The Caucus group also said House spokesman, Benjamin Kalu should apologise to the Minority  Leader, Elumelu over reckless statement. The House Chairman, Committee on Media and Public Affairs in an earlier statement said Elumelu’s motion on Pantami was not presented properly on the floor of the House and not debatable. But, reacting on Friday in a press statement signed by Francis Ottah Agbo, Spokesman, Minority Caucus, House of Representatives said the House spokesman statement indicates nothing, but to mislead undisscerning public and frustrate genuine effort in the fight against terrorrism. The statement reads: “Attention of the Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives has been drawn to a statement by the Chairman of House Committee on Media and Public Affairs/ Spokesman of the House, Benjamin Kalu, which clearly exposed a sinister intention to misrepresent the rules of the House, mislead undiscerning  public and frustrate genuine effort in the fight against terrorism in our country. “We find it shocking that instead of standing with Nigerians at this critical moment, Kalu choses to engage in personal attack on the Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, for pointing to the dangers of retaining in office, the Minister, Pantami, after reports of the minister’s support for terrorists came to the fore. “This is especially after the minister himself admitted to the facts of his sympathy for violent, extremist and terrorist groups, including, Al-Qaida and Taliban. “Indeed, Kalu’s claim that our Minority Leader did not properly present his motion, under an appropriate rule is completely dumb, frivolous and exposes his poor knowledge of the legislative procedures which points to a deliberate scheme to jeopardize  our nation’s fight against terrorism. “We take strong exception to Kalu’s vain posturing of trying to tutor the Minority Leader, a well respected seasoned legislator, on the House Standing Rules and parliamentary convention.” The statement further instructed that the motion by the Minority Leader calling for the resignation or sack of the Minister by President Muhammadu Buhari was properly presented under the House rules as provided in Order 6: 1,2&3 (Privileges), contrary to claims by Kalu. “Order 6:1,2,3 clearly and generously provide for full debate on the issue brought pursuant to it. “For the avoidance of doubt, while sub-section 2 of the Order 6 provides that, “whenever a matter of privilege arises, it shall be taken into consideration immediately”, sub section 3 is clear in providing that whenever a matter of privilege arises, it shall be disposed of and no other issue shall be considered until the debate on a motion thereon is adjourned. “It is clear that the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, conceded to the appropriateness of the Order, under which the Minority Leader presented his motion, and for that, did not rule him out of order, regarding the presentation of the motion and its consequential prayers, accepting the motion, announced that the issues raised have been noted. “It is therefore irresponsible for anybody, let alone the spokesperson of the House, who should be abreast of the Rules, to state that the Minority Leader ought to have known better than coming under Order 6. “His statement is therefore in bad faith and should be disregarded and withdrawn, immediately,” the statement stated. READ ALSO: Kaduna: ‘65 Adara natives kidnapped with no traces’ The Caucus said it will not condone any unwarranted attack on any of its colleague, let alone the Minority Leader, who is doing very well by speaking the mind of the silent majority of Nigerians, who have no platforms to speak out adding that; “Kalu was not in Plenary when the motion was moved. “We expected him to have consulted the Rule book before attacking the Minority Leader. We believe if he he had done that,  he would have saved the 9th House of Representatives  embarrassment his statement has caused. “We therefore, demand that Kalu should withdraw his statement and tender an unreserved apology to the Minority Leader and Nigerians for misrepresenting the rules of the House. “Our caucus, standing with millions of Nigerians, also demands that the Speaker should immediately act on the prayers of the motion, by conveying same as the position of the House to Mr. President, having accepted the appropriateness of the procedure and taken legislative note of the prayers therein. “As a caucus, we stand behind the Minority Leader in insisting that the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, resign or be removed by President Muhammadu Buhari, as his continued stay in office poses great threat to our national security, Insecurity is blind to creed and party colorations and this underscores why the Caucus will resist any attempt by anyone to politicize a clear existential threat to our motherland.”