By Mutiat Alli Beausoleil Victor Emmanuel Mervyn better known as Vicsoleil, is one of Canada’s leading black figures has attributed his passion and predisposition for community service to the influence of his parents. “My father, a deacon of Prince of Peace Parish in Toronto, and my mother, who worked for the federal government of Canada, both inspired my passion for community development, service, and philanthropy,” he affirmed. Vicsoleil, as he is well known on Instagram, was 24 years old when he co-founded Redemption Reintegration Services, one of the largest youth-led, youth justice agencies in Canada. He has also held a number of public service positions in Toronto. “In 2013, I received my first public service appointment by the Premiere of Ontario Kathleen Wynne as a member of the Premier’s Council on Youth Opportunities, PCYO ,” he supplied. As a lecturer, Vicsoleil has travelled extensively throughout Canada and in the United States, UK, and Africa on speaking engagements for community organizations, institutions, and philanthropic foundations. He further gave a breakdown of his present public service appointments: “I have been a board member of the Atkinson Charitable Foundation, a member of the grant review committee’s of the Laidlaw Foundation, and the Toronto Community Housing Social Investment Fund. READ ALSO: Buhari regime sabotaging war on terror I currently sit on the board of directors for the Toronto Community Benefits Network, I am the Board President of CCEDnet – The Canadian Community Economic Development Network, I sit on the loan review committee for the Fair Finance Fund and on the board of REAC – the Regional Ethno-Advisory Council for Corrections Services Canada.” His passion for the empowerment of the black community, avowed Vicsoleil, was what led him to co-found Social Economy Through Social Inclusion, SETSI. According to him: “SETSI was inspired by the importance of community economic development for African Canadians. My colleagues and I aim to ensure peoples of African descent in Canada are engaged as full citizens with political, and economic power and sovereignty.”