China toughened its language towards Taiwan on Thursday, warning after recent stepped up military activities near the island that Taiwanese “independence means war.” China further warned that its armed forces were taking action to respond to provocation and foreign interference. Taiwan, claimed by China as its own territory, reported multiple Chinese fighter jets and bombers entering Taiwan’s south-western air defence identification zone over the weekend, prompting concern in Washington. China believes that Taiwan’s democratically-elected government is moving the island towards a declaration of formal independence. Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen has, however, repeatedly said they were already an independent country called the Republic of China, its formal name. Asked at a monthly news briefing about the air forces’ recent activities, Chinese Defence Ministry spokesman Wu Qian said Taiwan was an inseparable part of China. READ ALSO: Ice Cream Tests Positive For Coronavirus In China “The military activities carried out by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in the Taiwan Strait are necessary actions to address the current security situation in the Taiwan Strait and to safeguard national sovereignty and security,” he said. “They are a solemn response to external interference and provocations by ‘Taiwan independence’ forces,” he added. The Chinese incursions coincided with a U.S. carrier battle group entering the disputed South China Sea to promote “freedom of the seas.” Wu said a “handful” of people in Taiwan were seeking the island’s independence. “We warn those ‘Taiwan independence’ elements: those who play with fire will burn themselves, and ‘Taiwan independence’ means war,” he added. Democratic Taiwan has denounced China’s threats and efforts at intimidation, and Tsai has vowed to defend the island’s freedom and not be coerced. China routinely describes Taiwan as its most important and sensitive issue in relations with the United States, which under the former Trump administration ramped up support for the island in terms of arms sales and senior officials visiting Taipei. President Joe Biden’s government, in office for a week, has reaffirmed its commitment to Taiwan as being “rock solid,” potentially auguring further strains with Beijing.