…Afenifere, others back Akeredolu …Accuse Buhari of protecting Fulani interest …Says, FG opposition of the order portends danger for Nigeria DOOSUUR IWAMBE, ABUJA Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, a former Aviation minister, Femi Fani-Kayode and other notable Nigerians have strongly rebuked the federal government for opposing the vacation order given to herdsmen in Ondo State by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Reacting to the development in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yinka Odumakin, Afenifere warned that opposing the order given by Akeredolu portends grave danger for peace in the South-West and Nigeria. Accusing the presidency of showing its non-pretence of representing the Fulani interest above other tribes in the country, Afenifere cautioned the government against actions that may result in a civil war. It also warned the Presidency to steer clear of governance issues in Ondo or any other state in the country, saying the governor’s action was the best in protecting the lives of Ondo indigenes since the federal government which has exclusive control of conventional security architecture in the country, had failed to protect the people. Afenifere said: “The intervention by what we mistakenly call the Federal Government of Nigeria on behalf of marauding Fulanis in Ondo State against the lawful government in that state did not come to Afenifere as a surprise as it is in line with the non-pretence by this regime that it represents only Fulani interests against those of Yoruba, Igbo, Junkun, Ijaw and other tribes in Nigeria. “That the Federal Government and its minion, Garba Shehu, could only hear Ondo State when Governor Akeredolu was very loud and clear about herders to vacate forest reserves in the state is symptomatic that this government has a serious problem with heating the rest of us when the issue involves its anointed Fulanis. “The Fulani criminals have caused untold hardships in Ondo State and other Yoruba towns and cities in recent time and only an irresponsible government that wants to behave like our Federal Government will continue to fold its arms. “Are Ondo forest reserves under Ondo State Government or the Federal Government and Miyetti Allah? We agree with the Ondo State Goverment that the insensibility of Garba Shehu violates the corporate existence of Nigeria.’’ They further called on all true-born Yoruba to stand behind Governor Akeredolu in these trying times, urging him to do all within the law to flush Ondo forests of all criminals. On his part, the former aviation minister said the assertion that herdsmen can reside in Ondo and southwest was ‘insulting, provocative, asinine and absurd.’ Fani- Kayode who reacted through his verified twitter handle said: “Quit notices cannot be given to law-abiding citizens in any part of Nigeria but must be given to those that kill, steal and seek to destroy the lives of others. “Murderous terrorists and bloodthirsty and evil men that hide in the forest to ambush, kidnap, kill and destroy innocent and hardworking men and women have no constitutional rights. “It is the duty of Government to not only flush them out from whichever hole they are hiding but also to dispatch them to hell where they belong. “Akeredolu has done and said the right thing and I urge every single SW Governor to do the same. Fulanis, Hausas, Igbos, Ijaws and all Nigerians are welcome in the SW but terrorists, bandits, killers and unhinged, bloodlusting and bloodthirsty psychopaths and sociopaths are not. “Buhari do your job and stop the killings. Stop turning a blind eye simply because they come from your tribe. “Stop brushing this under the carpet and treating them with kid gloves simply because they are your footsoldiers. Stop protecting them and stop encouraging them.” Also, Ondo State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, called on Shehu to explain why he has taken up the fight of criminal elements who masquerade as herdsmen. “One thing is certain, President Muhammadu Buhari by his antecedents, by his nationalistic posture and by his patriotism that he is known for, may not have directed that statement. “I am almost persuaded to think that Garba Shehu didn’t issue that statement because that would have been a very dangerous one for the unity of this country. I am waiting to confirm and if it is true, then, he may have miscommunicated properly to the people of Nigeria.” Ojogo said if confirmed that Shehu made the statement, then, “it would mean that certain persons in the presidency, certain officials in the presidency are actually out to create problem for President Muhammadu Buhari.” Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mr Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, also faulted the presidency’s opposition to the vacation order given to herdsmen by Akeredolu. The SAN who said that the presidency misinterpreted sections of the constitution saluted what he described as the rare statesmanship and courage displayed by the governor. READ ALSO: Gov Akeredolu issues ultimatum to herdsmen to register or leave Ondo Adegboruwa said: “I salute the courage of the governor. He displayed rare statesmanship and courage. I think it is a lesson for all governors to take hold of their territory and safeguard the lives and properties of people. “While it is herdsmen in the South, it is foreigners in the North. All of us are suffering. ‘’I back the governor 100 per cent because the constitution, in Section 14: 2, makes the security and welfare of the people the primary essence of governance. Any governor that cannot guarantee the lives and properties of the people does not deserve to be in office. “The constitution that the presidency is referring to is being misconceived and misinterpreted. Section 43, which grants people the right to own properties anywhere in Nigeria, cannot be construed as taking other people’s properties. “Your right to acquire properties is that you acquire according to law and follow due process. When you get to a forest, it rather belongs to an individual, a community, or government. So, if you want to come to occupy a forest as a stranger, you must obtain the consent of any of the owners. You are a trespasser and any of them can activate a process to forfeit your trespass. This is what the governor has done by giving notice. “What the law requires is seven days to forfeit the occupation of a place occupied illegally. It is the presidency that is not conversant with the laws of our land, not Akeredolu. “Section 44 of our constitution is against the compulsory takeover of lands. Let the presidency read the constitution properly. What the herders are doing is a forceful takeover of people’s land which is unconstitutional.”