Doosuur Iwambe *Seeks extradition of Nnamdi Kanu Identified as Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND), has written an open letter to president Muhammadu Buhari seeking the extradition of the self acclaimed leader of proscibed Indigenous People of Biafra,Mazi  Nnamdi Kanu, over his involvement in alleged treasonable felony. The group in an  open letter dated January 8th, 2021, is requesting  the government to urged the  United Kingdom and Israel to  extradit Kanu back to Nigeria face the law. The group explained in the letter that its action was predicated on Kanu’s ceaseless treasonable activities in the country. According to the letter jointly signed by its National President, Prof. Madumere Chika and National Secretary, Mazi Anayo Uchemba, the group alleged that the IPOB leader is hiding under the cordial relationship  between the two nations and Nigeria to plan and launch attacks on Nigeria with a view to destroying it. Describing Kanu as a fugitive who escaped the law after being granted bail following his arrest and detention over treasonable felony, the coalition insisted that Israel and the UK can turn in the IPOB leader given that he was in the nation’s wanted list. The group appealed to the United Kingdom and the Nation of Israel especially to cooperate with the Nigerian government to have Kanu brought back into the country to continue trial. It recalled with regret that Kanu,having evaded justice in the country, boastfully posted some video clips on the Internet where he threatened in a live broadcast not to ever submit himself to the trial that was abruptly suspended due to his sudden disappearance from the country. The Coalition  appealed to all foreign nations to direct their embassies to cooperate and assist Nigeria in tracking down Kanu and subsequently hand him over to the Nigerian authorities with a view to facing the law of the country. “We are constrained to write this open letter to the Federal Government of Nigeria through the President and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria,Muhammadu Buhari,to  immediately write the Government of the United Kingdom, requesting the extradition of our fugitive son and founder of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, to Nigeria to continue his trial over alleged treasonable felony,” the group said. Going further, the coalition said: Since Kanu escaped justice to the United Kingdom where he has another citizenship, we have watched him on some video clips he posted on the Internet where he did not only boast that he would not submit himself before the trial that was abruptly suspended due to his sudden disappearance from the country but also threatened that he would destroy our dear country. “He has no doubt,followed the threat with a number of attacks on the country apart from the formation of a militia group which information at our disposal suggest he has armed to the teeth to fight the Nigerian Government.” “We call on the Federal Government of Nigeria being ably led by President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami,whose ministry deals with all extradition issues, to immediately forward extradition request on Kanu to the UK for action. The coalition, on the other hand, called on the United Kingdom  and Isreal, to deny the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, the freedom of using the privilege of his foreign citizenship to incite violence against the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The group reminded the foreign nations that Nnamdi Kanu remained a fugitive to the law, having jumped bail that was granted him by a court of competent jurisdiction trying him here on a criminal charge of treasonable felony and other related offences. Specifically, the group alleged that the separatist leader was taking advantage of his sojourn in the aforesaid countries to cause anarchy and insurrection, through orchestrated incitement of members of the proscribed IPOB. It recalled that, in the eyes of the law, IPOB is a terrorist organisation, as it had been so declared by a Federal High Court in Abuja. READ ALSO: Ahead of Armed Forces Remembrance Day, Buhari extols fallen heroes’ virtues While noting that Kanu is a threat to the country and must be immediately brought to book, the Igbo professionals expressed displeasure with the UK government for continuously harbouring him. “We call on both the UK and Israel not to be seen to be facilitating the inglorious activities of a fugitive in Nigeria. They can prove their opposition to the activities of Kanu by flushing him out now. “We reiterate that we have reached a point where we expect the UK not to severe the ties that exist between it and Nigeria. We advise it to revisit its ill-advised choice of keeping a terrorist against the Nigerian state,” it added. The group assured President Muhammadu Buhari and other Nigeria’s that Igbos were fully committed to the Nigerian project, asking him to see the action of Mr Kanu as a lone one.