United States President-elect Joe Biden plans to quickly extend restrictions barring travel by most people who have recently been in much of Europe and Brazil, a spokeswoman for him has said. Trump signed an order Monday lifting the restrictions he imposed early last year in response to the pandemic from Jan. 26, after winning support from coronavirus task force members and public health officials. Soon after Trump’s order was made public, Biden spokeswoman Jen Psaki tweeted “on the advice of our medical team, the Administration does not intend to lift these restrictions on 1/26.” She added that “With the pandemic worsening, and more contagious variants emerging around the world, this is not the time to be lifting restrictions on international travel.” Until Biden acts, Trump’s order ends restrictions the same day that new COVID-19 test requirements take effect for all international visitors. Trump is due to leave office on Wednesday. Last week, the head of the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention signed an order requiring nearly all air travelers to present a negative coronavirus test or proof of recovery from COVID-19 to enter the U.S effective Jan. 26. The restrictions Trump rescinded have barred nearly all non-U.S. citizens who within the last 14 days have been in Brazil, the United Kingdom, Ireland and the 26 countries of the Schengen area in Europe that allow travel across open borders. The U.S. restrictions barring most visitors from Europe have been in place since mid-March when Trump signed proclamations imposing them, while the Brazilian entry ban was imposed in May. Psaki added that “in fact, we plan to strengthen public health measures around international travel in order to further mitigate the spread of COVID-19.” The Biden transition did not immediately respond to a request to comment on if it planned to expand the countries covered. Biden, once in office, has the legal authority to re-impose the restrictions. Last Tuesday, Marty Cetron, director of CDC’s global migration and quarantine division, told Reuters those entry bans were an “opening act strategy. He added that the bans were ” to address the virus spread and should now be “actively reconsidered.” Airlines had hoped the new testing requirements would clear the way for the administration to lift the restrictions that reduced travel from some European countries by 95% or more. They had pressed senior White House officials about the issue in recent days. Many administration officials for months argued the restrictions no longer made sense given most countries were not subject to the entry bans. Others have argued the United States should not drop entry bans since many European countries still block most U.S. citizens. Reuters previously reported the White House was not considering lifting entry bans on most non-U.S. citizens who have recently been in China or Iran. Trump confirmed on Monday that he would not lift those. Meanwhile, the top Republican in Congress, Mitch Mcconnell on Tuesday explicitly blamed outgoing President Donald Trump for the violent mob that attacked the U.S. Capitol this month. “The mob was fed lies. They were provoked by the president and other powerful people,” McConnell, the Senate majority leader, said on the floor of the chamber. It is likely McConnell’s last speech in his role, with the Senate set to be split 50-50 as of Wednesday. Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, a Democrat, will be the tie breaking vote in the event of split decisions, giving her party an edge. The comments by McConnell come as the Senate seems likely to soon hold an impeachment trial for Trump, after the House of Representatives impeached him for a second time within a year last week. Once the formal article of impeachment is sent over from the House to the Senate, the trial can begin, with a two-thirds majority needed to convict Trump. It is unclear how many Republicans might join the Democrats for such a vote, which would also bar Trump from holding office again. Trump is accused of inciting the insurrection, with fiery rhetoric that sought to delegitimise the victory of Joe Biden in the presidential election, including through unfounded allegations of systemic fraud and manipulation. At least five people, including a police officer, were killed during the attack on January 6, which came just after a rally held by Trump. Biden will be sworn in as the 46th president on Wednesday at noon, local time in Washington