The Archbishop of Abuja Catholic Archdiocese, Most Rev. Dr. Ignatius Kaigama, has condemned the incessant kidnapping of catholic priests and other ministers of God, describing it as molestation of the church. Kaigama in his homily on Sunday at St. Anthony’s Parish, Yangoji, Abuja, said an act of kidnapping was criminal, ungodly and degrading to humanity. The archbishop, who spoke at a mass to mark the solemnity of the baptism of Jesus Christ, said it should be clear to the kidnapers that the mission of the Catholic Church was to bring good news to the needy and poor. “Whatever may be the motive of the kidnappers, monetary or sheer intimidation, it should be clear to those engaged in such nefarious activities that the Catholic Church brings good news to the poor through huge sacrifices. “She complements government’s efforts through her selfless social, educational and medical services to the needy, so molesting the church is molesting the needy. “Whatever the Catholic Church has and does is for the good of all, irrespective of religious, ethnic or political differences,” he said. “We pray for the release of those who are still in captivity and for the conversion of the perpetrators of this inhuman act. “May Christ manifest Himself to the perpetrators of such evil actions as kidnapping, rape, killings, and grant them a change of heart,’’ he prayed. Kaigama said the purpose of his visit was to pray with the parishioners and to encourage them to persevere more in faith. He said they should not to give in to despair with the happenings around them, especially in the light of the kidnap of their parish priest. He recalled that the Parish Priest, Rev. Fr. Matthew Dajo was detained by his captors for 10 days, from November 22 before his release on December 2, 2020. “We thank God that despite his travails in the hands of his abductors, he remains generally well, apart from the psychological trauma he still suffers. “I commend you for your strength of faith, and for persevering in prayers with the conviction that he would be released. You did not allow the sad incident to demoralize you as you continued your spiritual and pastoral activities to the surprise of the perpetrators of such an evil,’’ the archbishop said. Speaking on the solemnity of the baptism of Jesus, Kaigama said it was a call to reject sin and embrace God, saying “baptism is one of the sacraments in the church. “Baptism is a primordial sacrament because unless one is born of water and the Holy Spirit, he will not enter the kingdom of God, according to gospel of John, chapter three verse five. READ ALSO: It’s tough to be a Christian up Northern Nigeria, says Archbishop of Jos “The Holy Spirit at baptism confers on the baptized the grace of purification and the right of adoption; it is God’s seal, His mark of ownership on us. “Baptism is the basis of the whole Christian life, the gateway to life in the spirit, and the door which gives access to the other sacraments,” the archbishop declared. While many Christians recall and mark their birthday, he said very few recall or celebrate the anniversary of their baptism, urging Christians to do so.