United States of America entered another era yesterday as Joe Biden was sworn in as the country’s 46th president, in a ceremony administered by Chief Justice, John Roberts. Moments earlier, Kamala Harris was sworn in as vice president, becoming the first woman to hold the office. She is of African-American and Indian descent. The ceremony on the West Front of the Capitol took place without Donald Trump, the then outgoing president, who went to Florida. Biden was sworn in at an unusual inauguration closed to the public due to the still raging coronavirus pandemic. The new U.S president, in his inaugural speech, pledged to unite the country, calling on Americans to end the uncivil war that has fractured the nation. Biden repeatedly stressed the need for unity in the divided nation, calling it the only path forward. “I know speaking of unity can sound to some like a foolish fantasy these days, I know the forces that divide are deep and they are real,” he said. “Our history has been a constant struggle between the American ideal that we’re all created equal and the harsh ugly reality of racism, nativism, fear, demonization. “This is our historic moment of crisis and challenge — and unity is the path forward,” he said. “The answer is not to turn inward, to retreat into competing factions, distrusting those who don’t look like you or worship the way you do, or don’t get their news from the same sources you do,” the president added a moment later. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Joe Biden sworn in as 46th President of the United States “We must end this uncivil war that pits red against blue, rural versus urban, conservative versus liberal. We can do this if we open our souls instead of hardening our hearts. If we show a little tolerance and humility, and if we’re willing to stand in the other person’s shoes.” Biden vowed to move quickly to address the pandemic, the subsequent economic collapse, racial injustice, climate change and political extremism. He also repudiated the mob that attacked the Capitol two weeks ago and promised he would be president for all Americans, including those who didn’t vote for him. “With unity we can do great things, important things. We can right wrongs. We can put people to work in good jobs, we can teach our children in safe schools, we can overcome the deadly virus,” he said. “We can deliver racial justice and we can make America once again a leading force for good in the world.” Earlier, Biden touched on the nature of the day’s triumph, which he said was, “not of a candidate, but of a cause, the cause of democracy.” “We’ve learned again that democracy is precious. Democracy is fragile, and, at this hour, my friends, democracy has prevailed,” he said. At 78, Biden is the oldest president ever to take office. And with his inauguration coming just two weeks to the day after a violent mob of Trump supporters stormed the Capitol, the stakes for his inaugural address couldn’t have been much higher. In attendance at the scaled-down ceremony were most members of Congress and the Supreme Court, former presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, and their spouses, as well as Vice President Mike Pence and his wife. Trump’s absence made him the first president to skip his successor’s inauguration in more than 150 years. As he left the White House on Wednesday morning, he told reporters that serving as president was “the honor of a lifetime” and claimed that “we’ve accomplished a lot.” Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has congratulated Biden and Harris. “Congratulations to @JoeBiden on being sworn in as President of the United States and to @KamalaHarris on her historic inauguration,” he tweeted. “America’s leadership is vital on the issues that matter to us all, from climate change to COVID, and I look forward to working with President Biden.”