ROTIMI FADEYI, ABUJA Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Friday said that due to the diligent work of Nigeria’s medical workers and experts , the country has expanded its public health response capabilities and is making progress in the sector since its first COVID-19 case last year. According to him, the country was making progress in the public health sector since after the nation’s first COVID-19 case last year, stressing that the development of a Nigerian COVID-19 vaccine was underway Osinbajo spoke at the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Reference Laboratory, Gaduwa, Abuja, where he underwent a facility tour, accompanied by the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire; Minister of State for Health, Dr. Adeleke Olorunnimbe Mamora; and the Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu. While noting “that we have a critical situation on our hands currently with the increasing number of cases being recorded”, the Vice President however added that a lot of progress has been made since Nigeria’s first case was reported in February 2020. “We have activated nearly 120 laboratories nationwide – 70 of them public laboratories – and have significantly ramped up our testing and case management capacity”, he disclosed. “We have expanded the footprint of our sovereign public health response capabilities especially at the subnational level and in areas where previously such capabilities did not exist. “Not so long ago, test samples had to be flown out of the country for examination. This is no longer the case as we now have the capacity to process samples internally.”, he said. Osinbajo observed that such an achievement should not be taken for granted, “but one that we are determined to consolidate on.” He said “this very facility is a testament to the strides that we have made during a short period. While we are not yet where we want to be as a nation, we are most certainly not where we were at the onset of the pandemic.” The Vice President then applauded Nigeria’s public and private healthcare specialists and workers in the line of duty for ensuring the safety, cure and prevention of majority of Nigerians from the COVID-19 virus, sometimes under extremely challenging circumstances. His words, “thousands of health professionals have been working tirelessly on Nigeria’s COVID-19 public health response. From the people across sample collection sites and laboratories ensuring testing, and our dedicated physicians, nurses and other health workers in treatment centres providing care to the sick, to our medical scientists that are conducting research on various aspects of this plague. “We also have State Public Health Teams working hard to ensure data reporting and analysis, contact tracing, risk communications and so much more. “Within this period, you have all worked extremely hard to activate testing in all states of our country, you have increased our knowledge of this disease, grown our capacity to swiftly identify those infected by the plague and render aid to them.” Osinbajo noted that, “I know that the work you do can often seem thankless and the long hours you put in unnoticed and unappreciated. “Often it happens in the background and in the shadows, away from public attention and it will not often grab the headlines. But it only seems this way. In truth, this is the sort of work that builds nations and saves lives “When the record of our response to this unprecedented threat to our public health is written, the efforts of our healthcare professionals will occupy a significant place with the thanks of a grateful nation” The Vice President also gave special commendation to NCDC where he added, “the excellent work I have witnessed today at the NCDC Reference Laboratory, is one of the best examples of how this pandemic has produced at least one silver lining, a showcasing of the remarkable skills and talents of our public health experts, here at NCDC and across the health sector.” He declared that it is “fair to say that the staff of the NCDC and all those engaged in Nigeria’s COVID-19 public health response, represent public service at its very best in Nigeria, and are an example of the type of public sector that we all want. “So, to all staff of the NCDC and Public Health Teams across the states, thank you for the excellent work that you do. I want you all to know that your country is extremely proud of you. Incredible as it may sound, you are indeed making history every single day.” The Vice President spoke on the ground-breaking research of several Nigerians towards creating a cure for the COVID-19 virus. He said, “Last week I was in briefing meetings, listening to the landmark research of a team of Professors from LUTH who are investigating the efficacy” of some of the drugs in the therapeutic management of Covid-19 and are researching its prophylactic use. “A few days later I was listening to Professor Christian Happi and his team who have produced a ground-breaking COVID-19 rapid test, but more remarkably, are developing a Nigerian anti Covid-19 vaccine.” The Vice President further urged Nigerians to continue to comply with COVID-19 non-pharmaceutical measures, urging all Nigerians to comply with the advice of “our scientists and healthcare professionals and to continue to take every measure to keep themselves and their loved ones safe.” He assured that as a nation and people, “we will come through this period of our history as we have come through all previous seasons of adversity – by working together, protecting each other, believing in each other and committing to seeing better days ahead for our nation.” During the tour of the facility, the Vice President was taken round the laboratories and also interacted with a select group of staff. He paid tribute to the memory of the late NCDC staff, Uche Njoku, who died in the course of duty. In a related development, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), says it is expecting the final confirmation for coronavirus vaccine from Covax Initiative backed by Gavi Vaccine Alliance, World Health Organisation and Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. READ ALSO: Governors disown Bello for rejecting Covid-19 vaccines Executive Director, NPHCDA, Dr. Faisal Shuaib, who said this in an interview on Friday in Abuja, revealed that “we are expecting final confirmation soon from Covax on when our first doses will arrive through the programme. In parallel, we are speaking to both the African Union and manufacturers to get the doses we need.” Shuaib noted that the country was expected to take delivery of its first coronavirus vaccine doses in February, with health workers, top government officials and vulnerable people to be given priority. He said the country targeted to vaccinate 70 per cent of its population in the country. According to him, the first batch would be enough for a maximum of 50,000 people, equivalent to about 0.00025 per cent of the country’s population. He said it would be allocated to healthcare professionals working in the coronavirus isolation centers and those supporting them, as well as government officials. Shuaib stated that the country had also acquired three ultra-cold freezers to keep the Pfizer vaccines at the required temperature, adding that in the long term, government plans to invest in vaccines that are easier to store, such as those created by AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford. Nigeria hopes to get 42 million COVID-19 vaccines to cover one fifth of its population through the global COVAX scheme. The initial vaccines would come as part of Nigeria’s plan to inoculate 40 per cent of the population this year and another 30 per cent in 2022, with 100,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine arriving by the end of January.