ROTIMI FADEYI, ABUJA President Muhammadu Buhari has communicated the appointment of the Service Chiefs to the National Assembly and sought for the confirmation of the appointment by the Senate. A statement issued on Friday by Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Babajide Omoworare, said Buhari had requested the confirmation of the Senate through his letter to the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, dated 27th January 2021. He said this was done in furtherance of Section 18 (1) of the Armed Forces Act Cap. A.20 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria. According to him, contrary to fears expressed in some quarters that Buhari has “bypassed” the National Assembly in the process of the appointment of the Service Chiefs and that he has no intention of seeking consideration and confirmation of their appointment, Mr. President, upon nomination for appointment, sought confirmation of the Senate for the appointment of the new Service Chiefs. READ ALSO: Buhari meets with Sultan, warns against ethnic, religious prejudices The new Service Chiefs are Chief of Defence Staff, Major-General Lucky Irabor; Chief of Army Staff, General Ibrahim Attahiru; Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo and Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao The statement said, “It is on record that this same procedure was adopted when the immediate past Service Chiefs were appointed. Upon announcement of the appointment of the then Service Chiefs – Major General Abayomi Olonisakin (Chief of Defence Staff), Major General Tukur Buratai (Chief of Army Staff), Rear Admiral Ibok-Efe Ibas (Chief of Naval Staff) and Air Vice Marshal Sadique Abubakar (Chief of Air Staff), Mr. President had written the 8th Senate on 14th July 2015 for confirmation. Whilst the correspondence was read on the floor of the Senate on 28th July 2015, consideration and confirmation of the appointments was carried out at the Committee of the Whole on 4th August 2015” “It will be recalled that the National Assembly will only resume plenary sessions on 9th February 2021, when hopefully Mr. President’s communication for consideration and confirmation of the nominations for appointment of the Service Chiefs would be undertaken. Before this administration, confirmation of Service Chiefs were not sought and obtained from the National Assembly in consonance with the provisions of Section 18 (1) of the Armed Forces Act Cap. A.20 LFN. We are aware that in Keyamo Vs. President & Ors, the Federal High Court set aside the Armed Forces Modification Order 2008 (purportedly made under Section 315 [2) of the Constitution) on 1st July 2013 and ruled that the confirmation of the National Assembly must be sought for the appointment of the Service Chiefs. We are in compliance with the spirit and letters of both the statute and case law”, the statement added.