The federal government has assured that more 200 jobs will be created from the yam storage facility built in Nasarawa state. The facility which is storing 45 – 50 Metric tonnes of Yam seed was commissioned on Sunday, January 31. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono commissioned the yam storage facility at the faculty of Agriculture, Nasarawa State University, Keffi-Shabu- Lafia. READ ALSO:  Naija farmers show: FG offers start- up capital for youths in agribusiness The yam storage facility is estimated to cover 16 hectares of land when planted, a statement by the Ministry’s Chief Information Officer, Ezeaja Ikemefuna stated. Speaking during the Commissioning Ceremony over the weekend, Nanono noted that the huge output of using clean seed yam will boost production, increase earnings of yam farmers and enhance the export of yam from Nasarawa state. The Minister said that the location of the facility inside the university will immensely add value in teaching, research and income generation for the farmers in the State, adding that the facility will generate about 200 jobs to the value chain. In his remarks, the Vice Chancellor, Nasarawa State University, Keffi-Shabu- Lafia, Prof. Suleiman Bala Mohammed appreciated the minister and his team for commissioning the Yam storage facility. Prof. Mohammed also revealed that the sum of  N35 million was released by the State Government to establish an aeroponics system for seed production and it is also a component of yam value chain. Among other places visited by the Minister include Shabu Integrated Farms, Kokona in Nasarawa State, where he expressed satisfaction with the storage facilities displayed by RIELA International, an Organisation that specializes in manufacturing high quality storage and Processing equipment, planning, engineering, assembling and services  for efficient and cost effective solutions of grain handling and preservation. The Minister was taken through a chain of corn processing from de kenneling the corn, cleaning to producing the corn flour among other products. The Minister in the company of the Executive Governor of Nassarawa State, Engr. Abdulahi Sule, had earlier paid a visit to the Dangote Sugar Farm housing 68,000 hectares of sugar farm in Tunga, Nassarawa State.