By Doosuur Iwambe *Say action handwork of few criminals in Yorubaland *Distance Yoruba people from ugly development Elders in the South West  region have condemned Friday’s attack on Sarkin Fulani,in Oyo State,Alhaji Salihu AbdulKadir and his family where houses were burnt down,livestock killed and  at least 11 cars  burnt to ashes. The elders stated their opposition to the action  in a statement jountly signed by their National Coordinator, Dr. Tunde Aremu and National Secretary, Barr. (Mrs) Folake Ajasin. According to the statement made available to journalists on saturday, the elders under the  umbrella of Coalition of Oduduwa Elders, said development was inimical to the unity of the country which they stand for. While attributing the development  to the handiwork of some criminals led by a secessionist, Sunday Adeyemo, the coalition said, they were  shock that such ugly development can happen in Yorubaland which they noted, had been in the forefront of a united Nigeria, the elders tasked security agencies to immediately swing into action with a view to arresting the culprits so they can face the wrath of the country’s law. “We received with utmost shock and disbelief the burning down of the  residence of Sarkin Fulani Oyo State, his  livestock and 11 cars,  by some suspected criminals in Yoruba land allegedly instigated by one Sunday Adeyemo otherwise known as Igboho. This action is unacceptable to us,it is criminal, barbaric and uncivilized, and we call for the immediate arrest and prosecution of Sunday Igboho and all the perpetrators of this dastardly and unwarranted act. “While we acknowledge the criminal activities of some suspected Fulani herdsmen in the state, we must state  that the attack of the Sarkin Fulani Oyo is  madness taken too far. “The Sarkin Fulani has  lived  in Oyo State for a very long time and has been known to be very peaceful. He has spoken publicly and privately against the criminal activities of some of their deviant youths and tasked security agencies to go after them. The Sarkin Fulani Oyo deserves commendation for his actions against the few criminals masquerading as herdsmen in Oyo and not this kind of evil and injustice meted on him by some of the criminals in our region. “This is highly condemnable and must be condemned by all”,the elders said:”Criminality is not a tribal trademark but a global trend involving people from every tribe and race.” READ ALSO:  Hope rises for Nigerian Covid vaccine “We all know that they are more good Fulani people than the bad ones just like there are also criminals of Yoruba extraction, hence it will be wrong to attribute criminality to every Fulani person in the South West,” the statement added. According the elders,”We must remember that we  have our brothers in the North who have been living there for ages as well. We shouldn’t set this  country on fire for our selfish interest.” ” We, therefore,urge all the governors in the South West states to take responsibility of their states’ security by ensuring that every lawful Fulani man and woman living in the South West is safe and protected from any form of attack and violence in the interest of peace and national  unity,  they must commence an immediate robust stakeholders’ meetings to engage all parties. “While we call our Fulani and Northern brothers not to see this act as an act of Yoruba people but a clear act of criminality perpetrated by some misguided youths that will be brought to book in no time. “The unity of Nigeria cannot be sacrificed on the alter of criminality,” the statement read.