Bukayo Saka is just 19 years old, but the prodigious young talent of Arsenal is already well versed in bailing his side out.The winger has taken it upon himself to drag Mikel Arteta’s side up the table with his excellent results since Christmas, with Arsenal’s season collapsing in the Premier League. And he emerged with the vital away goal to save what could be a critical 1-1 draw in the first leg of the Europa League last-32 tie, with their European hopes hanging in the balance, having found themselves 1-0 behind against Benfica in Rome. It was Saka’s sixth and undoubtedly his most critical target in an increasingly impressive campaign. At this point last season, Arsenal crashed out of the competition when they were stunned by Olympiacos at the Emirates Stadium and Arteta knows that he can’t afford to let that happen again. But they found themselves in trouble, despite dominating for significant stretches, having missed some glorious opportunities to put the game to bed early. Fresh from his hat-trick against Leeds on Sunday, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang had a night to forget – wasting two golden-edged chances to raise his Arenal tally to 82 goals in all competitions. In the first half, the Gabon international somehow fired wide from point-blank range, having been picked out by the cross of Hector Bellerin, and failed to reach the goal again after Martin Odegaard played through the break. Those appeared to be expensive misses when Emile Smith Rowe, who was converted by Pizzi on 55 minutes, awarded Benfica a penalty for a handball. But just when Arsenal needed someone to pull them out of the mire, Saka stepped up to make sure that the Gunners did not go into the second leg in Athens next Thursday night with a deficit to overhaul. At the right moment, the Arsenal youngster was in the right position to turn in a cross by Cedric Soares, who was picked out by a delicious pass from Odegaard that had opened up the backline of Benfica. This season, Saka now has 10 goals, six goals and four assists. Alexandre Lacazette (13) and Aubameyang (12) are the only ones that have more. For Arteta’s hand, it was a mostly disappointing campaign, and he was undeniably the brightest star. Despite his tender years, he is already a leader and he illustrated that again in Rome when some of his senior team-mates fluffed their lines around him. However, even with Saka’s equaliser, Arsenal will look back on the game as a lost chance. Benfica was there for the take and Arteta’s side had the chance to make the second leg a relative formality, but if they want to avoid a last-32 exit for the second straight season, they now have no room for error. Next week’s game in Athens is sandwiched between matches in the Premier League against Manchester City and Leicster.