In the Champions League last 16, the Dortmund star made Seville’s defence his playground. In his first 13 games, Erling Haaland became the first player in Champions League history to score at least 17 goals – but he didn’t stop there. Minutes after putting Dortmund ahead of Seville in the last-16 of the Champions League, with his deadly left foot, the 20-year-old Dortmund striker struck again with a composed low finish to the far post. In terms of finding the net, Haaland has so far stood above the rest on a stage that has minted so many attacking superstars in its history. Haaland became the first player to reach at least 17 goals in his first 13 games in the competition after previously being the quickest to five and 10 goals in Champions League play. Soon after, he padded the mark. In only seven appearances for Borussia Dortmund, he has scored 10 Champions League goals, the fastest a player has ever hit 10 goals for a single team in the competition, breaking Roy Makaay’s record with Bayern Munich. He moved into a tie with Robert Lewandowski for most Champions League goals since the beginning of last season with Haaland’s second correct finish on Wednesday. By way of pure early-career goalscoring, Haaland has an advantage over many of the most celebrated European attackers today. When they were Haaland’s age (20), Lewandowski and Luis Suarez had not yet played in the Champions League, although Cristiano Ronaldo at Manchester United struggled to score in 1,299 minutes of play. To this stage, Haaland has scored around 1.64 goals per 90 minutes in the competition, much more than Lionel Messi (0.47) and Kylian Mbappe (0.67) had across their campaigns over the age of 20. Meanwhile, in Wednesday’s 2-1 Champions League loss, Juventus head coach Andrea Pirlo was upset that his side gave Porto their opening goal “on a silver platter” Before a late goal from Federico Chiesa gave the Serie A side hope, the home side scored early in both halves, Mehdi Taremi in the second minute and Moussa Marega in the 46th. “We had prepared well for this game, it was not the attitude we wanted, but conceding a goal in the opening minute when we handed it to them on a silver platter made everything more difficult,” Pirlo told reporters. “When you concede a goal after one minute, a strange one at that, it’s natural the players will lose confidence, especially against a side that knows how to clam up in defence. “Our approach was wrong after we conceded the goal … We had planned on attacking the deeper spaces, but if you take too many touches, things get complicated. We weren’t smart, the ball was moved around too slowly. “Porto got the game immediately on the track they wanted. With such a packed fixture list, it’s normal you can’t always maintain absolute focus and the right tempo, but it shouldn’t have happened in the round of 16 of the Champions League.”