Dilibe Michael, Maiduguri The new service chiefs on Sunday toured Borno State to assess the war against Boko Haram in the north-east during which they held meetings with Governor Babagana Umara Zulum and the Shehu of Borno, Abubakar Garbai El-kanemi to seek their support in ending the insurgency. Chief of Defence Staff, Major-General Leo Irabor, led the Chief of Army staff, Major General Ibrahim Attahiru, Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao, on a courtesy call at the Government House, Maiduguri. Gov. Zulum in receiving the service chiefs sought enhanced ties between the military and civilian population to bridge trust deficit and increase military’s access to credible intelligence gathering which he said, was key to success in the fight against insurgency. The governor assured the military chiefs of his administration’s commitment and support to the armed forces by way of supplementing their efforts in the ongoing war. Also, he urged the service chiefs to tolerate fair and constructive criticisms that might be made in good faith to enhance their productivity, adding that “in democratic settings, the military is an establishment which is subject to constructive criticisms by well-meaning citizens. “Therefore, you are expected to accept such criticisms in good faith with a view to enhancing the productivity in your operations.” The governor further noted that for the military to achieve success, there should be robust coordination and collaboration between different security operatives, particularly between the army and air force. The governor also called on the military to ensure a continued and sustained operations to deny insurgents breathing space by blocking all routes to avoid terrorist moving from one region to another. Responding, the Chief of Defence Staff, Major General Leo Irabor assured that military operations will receive a boost in order to nip out the insurgents completely. He, however, craved the understanding of the civilian population in the fight against terrorism. READ ALSO: We won’t give up fight against terrorism, Gov. Zulum pledges In another development, suspected Boko Haram terrorists on Sunday invaded Chabal and other communities of Magumeri Local Government Area of Borno State, killing two policemen and abducting two others. It was gathered that the terrorists also in an ambush seized two patrol vehicles and set ablaze another one along the Maiduguri-Chabal- Magumeri Road north of Maiduguri, the state capital. A source on condition of anonymity revealed that “the service chiefs are currently in Maiduguri for their first operational visit to theatre command ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’, since their appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari. “The service chiefs are the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Iraboh, Chief of Army Staff, Major General Ibrahim Attahiru, Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao and Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Auwal Gambo and other principal staff officers from the Defence Headquarters and the other three services. “The service chiefs while in Maiduguri were briefed at the headquarters command and control centre, Maimalari Cantonment in Maiduguri, after which they all visited the Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum and the Shehu of Borno, Abubakar Garbai Elkanemi to seek their collaborative support to end the lingering crisis. “But unfortunately, some armed insurgents wreaked havoc today and killed two policemen on patrol before abducting two others. Also, during the Chabal and Magumeri Communities onslaught, the insurgents went away with two patrol vehicles after setting ablaze one of the vehicles. “The dead bodies of the policemen were conveyed to Maiduguri with one injured police officer now receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in Maiduguri. ”