…PDP dismisses allegation of smear campaign plot against President Tunde Opalana, Abuja Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that allegations of smear campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari by the Presidency, has further confirmed that the Buhari administration is being haunted by the shadows of its own failures. The PDP also counselled Buhari to stop his new-found pleading with Nigerians to award him an “unmerited pass mark.” The party stated that such plea in the face of the manifest failures of his administration amounts to an assault on the sensibilities of Nigerians and an attempt to corrupt the records. According to a statement issued on Sunday by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said smear campaign cannot save the Buhari administration. “It is clear that the Buhari-led APC administration is plagued by all-round failure in governance. If indeed it has any record of success in any sector, Mr. President would not be begging Nigerians, even in his home state, Katsina and among his party members, to award him a pass mark. “It is however absurd that President Buhari is still pleading for an undeserved pass mark when his administration has plunged our nation into the worst economic crisis, wrecked our productive sectors, borrowed from all corners of the world, stagnated our infrastructure, elevated corruption, allowed APC leaders to loot and stash away over N15trillion from our national coffers, while leaving bandits, terrorists, kidnappers to continue to ravage our nation. READ ALSO: Presidency alleges smear plot against Buhari “If the Buhari-led APC administration had done well, will the APC be going about orchestrating a membership revalidation and begging people to award it fictitious pass marks? “President Buhari’s approval rating has fallen so low that even members of his party, the APC, have abandoned him to seek for direction and leadership elsewhere. “The situation is so bad that barely two years into his four years and final tenure, leaders of his party, the APC, are already searching frantically for his replacement with some of them already commencing campaign activities”, read the statement. The PDP described as appalling that instead of facing reality, the Buhari Presidency is threatening Nigerians and overheating the polity will allegations of plots to wage a “smear campaign” against President Buhari in unnamed online newspapers. Such allegation, said the party, is only symptomatic of a failed administration that is looking for who to blame for its woes, because any fair appraisal of the Buhari-led APC will only present “a litany of failures and woes” The PDP wondered if this allegation is not a ploy for a renewed clampdown on the media and dissenting voices, particularly those now arising among well-meaning APC leaders, who are completely disenchanted by the “incompetence and corruption inherent” in their party and its administration.