Amaka Agbu, Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike has condemned the posture of some states and ethnic groups that suggest that they own the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). He said the commission belonged to all states in the region and that no one particular ethnic group could assert itself as the dominant owner of the commission. The Rivers State governor made the declaration when he played host to the Interim Management Committee of NDDC on courtesy visit to Government House, Port Harcourt on Tuesday. Wike said members of those groups always kicked against the appointment of people to head the commission because they felt such persons were not from core Niger Delta States, which he stated must stop. He said: “Anybody can be appointed in Niger Delta. There are people who believe that if they appoint somebody from Edo or Cross River States for example, they say no: that those people are not the core Niger Delta states. We must have to stop that.” The governor also said such people also left their states and come to Rivers state to block the gates of the commission, cause crisis, and frustrate economic activities. “NDDC does not belong to any ethnic group in the Niger Delta region. It does not belong to anybody. There are people who have seen themselves that they are the owners of NDDC. They leave their state and come to NDDC to block NDDC gate .We are peaceful people, but nobody should push us to the point where we can tell you enough is enough.” Governor Wike further continued: “The next time they try it again to cause crisis in our state, I’ll mobilise our people against them. I am not saying if you have grievance with NDDC you shouldn’t seek how to settle it. But don’t use it to cause problem for us, to begin to make economic activities not to move on.” The governor challenged the new interim leadership to be determined to make a difference, change the current narrative of the commission serving outsiders interest and abandoning it’s core mandate of developing the region. READ ALSO: Wike boasts of silencing critics over accusations of non-performance Governor Wike said people were abusing the entire region because the commission had wasted trillions of Dollars without lifting the masses of the region out of poverty or commensurate developmental projects on ground to show for the funds received . “The problem with us is that you allow people outside to control you. You want to have godfathers from East, West and North. NDDC is created for Niger Delta. Use the money for the people and region. “They are abusing us that Niger Delta is a curse. Trillions of dollars have been spent, and we cannot say this is what we have spent the money on. “Those Abuja portfolio contractors are part of the people controlling you. They tell you what to do and you do it for fear that they will remove you. But eventually, you will be removed. So, why not work for the people. When you’re removed, you’ll know you did your best for the region,” he said. Governor Wike also charged the interim management to always work with all the state governors in the region on equal footing, and without politics so that together, they can achieve desired development. “Go and visit every governor because they are members of the governing council of NDDC and they are the leaders of the states. You don’t need to entangle yourself with unnecessary bickering, politicking. Show a difference,” he continued. The governor cautioned the NDDC management to obey subsisting court order that made it mandatory for the commission to seek the consent of the state government before embarking on any project, particularly in Rivers State. He warned that if the commission defied the state government, the commission would be dragged to court for contempt. “I will not hesitate to tell the Attorney General to file contempt against officials of NDDC and NDDC itself. We will not hesitate. Because we have come to the time that Nigerians must understand we must follow rules. “The only way you can talk about good governance is when you obey the rule of law. There cannot be good governance when there is nothing to show you obey the law. Good governance is predicated on the rule of law,” he stated. He, then, urged them to conceptualise regional project for execution to end the piecemeal partner they had adopted which, he said, had not moved the region forward in terms of infrastructural development. “I’ve always said to people, when you have the opportunity to make contribution to the development of your fathers land, you must see it as blessing God has given you. You must not see it as a way to set back your region,” he said. Governor Wike also urged NDDC to send their partnership support towards the reconstruction of the ongoing dualisation of Eastern By Pass Road where the NDDC permanent headquarters was located. He told them to put their temporary office along Aba Road in good condition before moving out to their permanent headquarters office. Earlier, the Interim Administrator and Chief Executive Officer of the NDDC, Mr. Effiong Akwa, said the visit was first to be undertaken by his team to any governor in the region. Akwa informed the governor that with the newly built permanent NDDC head office completed, they were ready to commission it on 25th February, 2021. The Interim Administrator on behalf of the commission later presented six waste disposal trucks to the Rivers State Government to improve the sanitary conditions in the state.