Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja The World Health Organisation, WHO has said that about 16million doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been released to Nigeria. The global health body while reacting to reports that it has barred Nigeria from accessing COVID-19 vaccines due to lack of adequate storage facility said, it has not disqualified any country in Africa from accessing COVID-19 vaccines through the COVAX facility. The WHO said, it is rather  supporting all countries to access vaccines as quickly as possible. “Currently, all countries on the continent are expected to start accessing the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccines by the end of February. The vaccine is under review by WHO for Emergency Use Listing and the outcome is expected soon. READ ALSO: COVID-19: NCDC, NCC activate 6232 as short code for verified information “Of the 88 million AstraZeneca doses allocated to African countries for the first phase, Nigeria has received by far the largest allocation, with 16 million doses. “In addition to the Astra Zeneca doses, there is an initial limited volume of Pfizer vaccine available through COVAX. “Demand for the initial allocation of 1.2 million Pfizer doses was exceptionally high. COVAX received interest from 72 countries around the world, of which 51 countries were considered by the review committee as “ready” (Nigeria was among these countries) and 18 countries in total were finally chosen to receive initial Pfizer doses. “On the Africa continent, as of the 18 January deadline, COVAX received 13 submissions and a multi-agency committee evaluated the proposals of which 9 were recommended as ready to deploy the Pfizer vaccine including Nigeria. “Unfortunately, it was not feasible to provide each of these 51 countries with Pfizer doses, due to a number of factors including the limited capacity for Pfizer to handle many countries at once. “Therefore, spreading the limited doses across all the 51 countries deemed ‘ready’. could have not achieve the intended public health benefit”, It said.