…Experts fear impacts of policy responses to pandemic …As many economies suffer huge budget deficits MOTOLANI OSENI AND TUNDE SHORUNKE Despite a decline in global trade and tourism amid surging COVID-19 infections, which have pushed many countries into steep recessions, including Nigeria, Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) has highlighted why African economies should be optimistic of recovery in the second quarter (Q2) of 2021. However, the global accounting body explained that economic confidence in the fourth quarter (Q4) of 2020, stalled and remains fragile heading into 2021. In its latest report tagged, ‘IMA Global Economic Conditions Survey (GECS),’ it explained that the confidence of activity indicators was increasing in the Q4 2020 survey, while the previous experience of pandemics and a relatively young population mitigated the worst-case scenario for Africa. The latest report, which tracked confidence and fear indices in a global survey of more than 3,000 senior professionals including 474 across Africa reflected the outlook and experiences of the thousands of businesses they advise. According to the professional body, the results from Africa show that nearly half (48 per cent) expect the economic recovery to begin after Q2 and that: Across Africa, both confidence and activity indicators increased in the Q4 survey, with an especially strong rebound in confidence from 8.7 to 11.9 points. But all the main activity indicators, such as orders and employment, remain below pre-crisis levels. “The ‘fear’ indices – concern about customers and suppliers going out of business fell back in Africa in Q4 to 43 and 22 respectively, but both remain above long-run averages. “Previous experience of pandemics and a relatively young population prevented a dramatic fall in output last year. Nonetheless, renewed rises in infections towards the end of 2020, plus a continued absence of foreign tourists, points to a weak start to 2021”, it stated. Commenting on the new report, Head of ACCA Nigeria, Thomas Isibor said, “These findings from our members working across Africa reveal an optimism about recovery after Q2, but respondents are very aware of the current fragile economic position both in Africa and globally. Questions that address opportunities, such as investment and entering new markets have taken small dips from Q3 to Q4 2020.” He, therefore, added that the global 2020 Q4 findings reveal the ‘fear’ indices – concern about customers and suppliers going out of business – edged lower in Q4 but remain elevated. “This underlines the extreme uncertainty in the global economic outlook at the start of 2021. The confidence measure fell back in North America, having surged in the previous Q3. By contrast, there was a big improvement in Middle East confidence, buoyed probably by continued recovery in oil prices. Inflation concerns remain negligible with concern about costs staying close to an all-time low. “Looking ahead, over 50 per cent of respondents in the Asia Pacific, North America and South Asia expects a sustainable recovery in the second half of this year. The most optimistic in this respect is the Middle East, where 54 per cent expect recovery during the first half of the year”, he explained. Also, the Chief Economist at ACCA, Micheal Taylor said, “Last year was the worst for the global economy for several decades. 2021 will see recovery but precisely when and how strong it will be is very uncertain. READ ALSO: ACCA, ICC partner to save small businesses “We anticipate a weak start, followed by a recovery gathering momentum through the second half. Much depends on the evolution of the COVID virus and variants relative to the progress of vaccination programmes and there is great uncertainty surrounding these developments. “Since our polling in December, many countries have seen increased COVID-19 infection rates, prompting governments to re-impose restrictions including national lockdowns. This means that global economic prospects early in 2021 have deteriorated since the Q4 survey. At the same time there has been progressing on the approval of vaccines, raising hopes of a permanent improvement in economic conditions later this year”, Taylor added. However, the report pointed out that unemployment rates will be rising in many countries, potentially undermining consumer confidence and limiting the strength of a rebound. Similarly, the Vice President of Research and Policy, ACCA, Raef Lawson said, “The pandemic has forced millions into extreme poverty as emerging markets suffered a recession for the first time in decades last year. “Policy responses to the pandemic have left the public finances of most economies in a perilous state with budget deficits in the range of 10 per cent to 15 per cent of GDP in many countries with debt to GDP ratios well over 100 per cent.” “All this presents a big test for policymakers in terms of when to withdraw policy support and when policy should be tightened to rebuild public finances. Policy mistakes would risk derailing the economic recovery,” he added.