CHUKWUEMEKE IWELUNMO Airline operators across the globe have recorded a whopping loss of $370billion as international passenger traffic dropped by 60 per cent in 2020, making it the worst decline in 17 years. This was disclosed this in the Economic Impact Analysis of Covid-19 by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), which was obtained by our correspondent. The ICAO report indicated that air travel totals back to 2003 levels in the past year, as international airlines recorded a huge loss due to the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the aviation industry globally. The international body data, also,revealed that seat capacity fell by 50 per cent last year, while passenger totals dropped by 60 per cent with just 1.8 billion passengers taking to the air during the year under review, compared to 4.5 billion in 2019. ICAO in the report also, stated that airline financial losses of $370 billion resulting from the Covid-19 impacts, with airports and Air Navigation Services Providers (ANSPs) losing a further $115 billion and $13 billion, respectively. Although, the pandemic plunge in air travel demand began in January of 2020, but was limited to only a few countries. But as the virus continued its global spread, however, air transport activities came to a virtual standstill by the end of March. With the wide-scale lockdown measures, border closures, and travel restrictions being set out around the world, by April the overall number of passengers had fallen 92 per cent from 2019 levels, an average of the 98 per cent drop-off saw in international traffic and 87 per cent fall in domestic air travel. Subsequent to the April low point being reached, passenger traffic saw a moderate rebound during the summer travel period. That upward trend was short-lived, however, stalling and then taking a turn for the worse in September when the second wave of infection in many regions prompted the reintroduction of restrictive measures. READ ALSO: Despite slump, African airlines report resilient outcome Sectoral recovery became more vulnerable and volatile again during the last four months of 2020, indicating an overall double-dip recession for the year. There has been a persistent disparity between domestic and international air travel impacts resulting from the more stringent international measures in force. Domestic travel demonstrated stronger resilience and dominated traffic recovery scenarios, particularly in China and the Russian Federation where domestic passenger numbers have already returned to the pre-pandemic levels. Overall there was a 50 per cent drop in domestic passenger traffic globally, while international traffic fell by 74 per cent or 1.4 billion fewer passengers. As of late May 2020, the ICAO Asia/Pacific and North American regions led the global recovery in passenger totals, largely due to their significant domestic markets. Europe saw a temporary rebound but trended downward dramatically from September. Latin American and Caribbean traffic saw improvements in the fourth quarter, while recoveries in Africa and the Middle East proceeded less robustly. Paralysed revenue streams resulting from the plunge in air traffic have led to severe liquidity strains across the aviation value chain, placing the industry’s financial viability in question and threatening millions of jobs around the world. Cascading impacts have also been severe across tourism markets globally, given that over 50 per cent of international tourists formerly used air travel to reach their destinations. The global $370 billion drop in gross airline passenger operating revenues represented losses of 120 billion in the Asia/Pacific, 100 billion in Europe, and 88 billion in North America, followed by 26 billion, 22 billion and 14 billion in Latin America and the Caribbean, the Middle East and Africa, respectively. The near-term outlook is for prolonged depressed demand, with downside risks to global air travel recovery predominating in the first quarter of 2021, and likely to be subject to further deterioration. “We expect any improvement in the global picture only by the second quarter of 2021, though this will still be subject to the effectiveness of pandemic management and vaccination roll out”, the report added.