Ukpono Ukpong, Abuja Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has said that the Federal Government neglected the call by Nigerians to address the security challenges in the country until things deteriorated abysmally. The NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, said this yesterday in his address during its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting held in Abuja. Wabba also said that many Nigerians resorted to self-help due to absence of a firm State response to the persistent confrontations between herdsmen and farmers. “Our beloved country has never been emmeshed in the grips of insecurity turbulence and crisis as we witness today. In the past two years or so, we have witnessed an intense resurgence of terrorism, armed banditry, kidnap for-ransom, militancy and resource conflicts all over the country. “There is also the challenge of criminals who hide under the camouflage of pastoralists to commit all sorts of crime against Nigerians. The mindless bloodshed and misery that our current state of insecurity unleash points to a serious breakdown in governance. “The tunes, discordance, reactions and counter-reactions from these informal frequencies have constituted in themselves new grand threats to the security, stability and sustainability of the Nigerian project. We cannot fold our hands and watch Nigerians engage themselves in ethnoreligious squabbles. The dangers are too significant to ignore.” READ ALSO: NLC releases fresh conditions to FG over strike Speaking further, Wabba strongly warned the FG against surrendering the paraphernalia of sovereignty to autonomous state actors. He said that kidnap for ransom has been elevated to the status of jungle enterprise as it has become a no respecter of persons as the low and mighty are all vulnerable. According to Wabba, many Nigerian citizens have been forced by the large scale spread of rural and urban violence to abandon their homes, while millions have become refuges in their own land. He noted that many Nigerians yet to flee their homes have literally become prisoners in their own homes as criminals have forced them into a state of perpetual tension and apprehension. However, he called on the new Service Chiefs to identify the lapses of their predecessors and correct same. “When the security situation in the country started getting out of hand, we called for the rejig of the leadership of our national security apparatus. This call was neglected until things deteriorated abysmally. Now that we finally have new sets of service chiefs in play, we demand that the lapses of the old be identified and corrected. “We call for a new verve of zeal and commitment in the war against terrorism, banditry, kidnapping, communal unrests and clashes. We must never get to that point where we surrender the initiative and paraphernalia of sovereignty to autonomous state actors and to forces of state capture. “Going forward, the Nigeria Labour Congress will revisit the resolutions of the last Delegates Conference which called for strong proactive steps by Congress to promote the security of lives and property particularly those of workers and their families.”