*Don’t disrupt 2019/2020 Academic Calendar, Management beg students *Says, it was putting all necessary measures in place to address issues raise by students Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja Students of the University of Abuja on Monday embarked on a peaceful at the entrance of the school against hike in tuition fee and other issues imposed by the university authority. The students carrying different placards with different inscriptions like, End school fees hike, We cannot pay over 100 per cent increase, What is the increment for demanded the immediate reversal of the tuition fee. This just as the management of the university has appealed to the students not partake in disrupting the 2019/2020 Academic Calendar, considering the amount of time lost to the strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, and COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing journalists at the entrance of the school gate, President, Students Union Government, SUG, of the institution, Oladeji Adebolawale, who led the protest noted that the peaceful protest was to express their displeasure over the recent happening in the school. The students called for reopening of the school portal till the end of the session. “We have our demands, which are reopening of the school portal till the end of the session, no student should be coerced to write to anybody in the school before he or she is allowed to pay school fees and other demands. If these demands are accented to, we will be okay. “Also, we are here to register our displeasure and to let the Vice-Chancellor know that it is not only the SUG president and his cabinet that are not happy about happenings in the school but that the whole university of Abuja students’’. Meanwhile, the management of the university in its reaction to the development, said it was embarking on all necessary measures aimed at addressing the issues raised by the students. They appealed to the students to be law-abiding students not to partake in actions that could truncate the ongoing academic session. The management in a statement by Dr Habib Yakoob, Head, University Relations, the University of Abuja said, “This morning, Monday 1st February 2021, at 7:30 am, some students blocked the Main Gate of the University, preventing other students and staff from gaining access into the campus. “The students said they were demanding the reopening and extension of school fees payment portal, cancellation of the late registration fee, and postponement of exams till 8th of March 2021. “The University Management states that following the release of 2019/2020 Academic Calendar by the Senate of the University, the registration of students was to be done in four weeks. “Following the expiration of this process, the University closed the portal in February 2020 in line with the 2019/2020 Academic Calendar. “Yet after pleas from the students’ union, the Vice-Chancellor, in his magnanimity, twice directed the reopening, at different times, of the portal to accommodate those who didn’t register on time. “In the last one week, a couple of meetings were held with the students’ union which again demanded the re-opening of the portal. The University administration held an emergency meeting with the union at 2.00 pm on Sunday 31st January 2021 and considered their appeal. “Consequently, the portal was reopened on Sunday 31st January 2021 for registration, for another two weeks – till February 14, 2021, and the students were duly informed. Again, the late registration fee for those who had not paid their school fee as well as those who paid but did not register was waived; and the late registration fee of N5, 000 was to be refunded to students who had earlier paid. “The University Management, is, however, surprised that while so many of our students were excited to be resuming to campus today after ten months at home, they were held back by some elements among students who are protesting the same issue that had already been addressed by the University’’, the statement read.