Benjamin Omoike The management of the Nigerian Maritime and Safety Agency (NIMASA), has rated Lagos State as the best in maritime safety in the country. During a courtesy visit to the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, at the Lagos House, Ikeja, on Tuesday, the Director General, NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, said inspite of the high rate of insecurity in the maritime sector in the country, Lagos remains the only state that has the highest maritime security. While identifying areas of partnership between the state government and NIMASA, the DG said the extinction of the fishing industry is due to insecurity on the waterways, adding that the agency is ready to partner with Lagos to ensure safety on the waterways. “We are seeing the extinction of the of the fishery industry due to maritime insecurity. 98% of the maritime insecurity originates from land to sea but Lagos still remains the state that has the highest maritime security,” he said. READ ALSO: Navy, NIMASA to harmonise maritime training guidelines Other areas of partnerships, he said are the ferry services, waste management on the sea, and the extension and development of the shipping industry. “We are also looking at the ferry services as the alternative means of transportation, so we can reduce the level of traffic congestion we are experiencing and also the estate management on the sea. Another area has to do with the shipping extension and development so that our visions which we envisaged in the next 20years will take us to the promised land,” the DG said. He further said the maritime industry, if well harnessed, could generates $90trillion for the country and help the country diversify its reliance on oil, adding that the Blue Economy, which is the use of the ocean for economic growth, will increase livelihood and enhance the well being of our people. “We need alliances and we have recognised Lagos State as one of our alliances.” In his response, the state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the state is responsible for over 70% maritime activities, therefore “it’s important we work collaboratively.” “Another area of partnership is in the area of wreckage. Once we find those wreckages, we should put them out. We are at the stage of completing 15 jetties in the state. We have moved over 250,000 passengers through our ferries in less than a year. Our plan is to develop the waterways where people do a lot. It is a deliberate strategy we need to look at.” As a government, we are ready to work hand in hand with you. We will commission the Lekki Port before the end of this administration so we can decongest Apapa. We are willing and ready. We want to see that real synergy,” Sanwo-Olu said.