LADESOPE LADELOKUN A reminder has gone out to the federal government that the Nigerian Industrial Development Fund (NIDF) was established to, by law, to receive and invest 10 per cent of the revenue generated in the country for industrialization. A natural resources development expert, Roland Idimi, (Ubiomor) gave the charge in a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari. The natural resources development consultant said it was important to learn from history and apply a body of knowledge available to develop concepts and programs to solve our many problems. According to him, before the Industrial Evolution in Europe and America, it can be said that Africa was on the same level of industrialisation and civilization with them, agriculture development dominating global trade and commerce. He stressed that the industrial evolution set into motion the process and roadmap from which European and American dominance of the new world started. Ubiomor reasoned that no nation can truly be great without indigenous technology, noting that economic historians agreed that the beginning of the industrial revolution was the most important event in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants. “Even though China didn’t benefit directly from the era of industrial evolution in Europe and America, China’s industrial revolution, which started 40 years ago, is perhaps one of the most important economic and geopolitical phenomena since the original Industrial Revolution 250 years ago. “The reason is simple: Less than 10 per cent of the world’s population is fully industrialized; if China can successfully finish its industrialization, an additional 20 per cent of the world’s population will be entering modern times. Along the way, China is igniting new growth across Asia, Latin America, Africa and even the industrial West, thanks to the country’s colossal demand for raw materials, energy, trade and capital flows. “China’s rapid growth has puzzled many people, including economists. How could a nation with 1.4 billion people transform itself relatively suddenly from a vastly impoverished agricultural land into a formidable industrial powerhouse when so many tiny nations have been unable to do so despite their more favourable social-economic conditions? Nigeria in particular, after about 59 years of democracy, the Government and people have not even clearly know the root cause of their economic problems and backwardness, let along to finding solutions to them. “Over the years, successive Governments of Nigeria has highly misplaced national priorities and chasing the wrong programs or taking the wrong route to solve Nigeria economic problems in a globalized world that is highly competitive and complex. This has resulted in poor economic development when compared with some other nations like South Kora, Brazil, Malaysia Nigeria was once in close economic competition with. With all due respect Mr President, the policies direction of your Government has not been able to inspire the confidence of some of us as it is not driven by industrial development,” he added. On the mandate of the NIDF, Ubiomor suggests that the Nigerian Gas Master Plan be revised to ensure that there is a gas pipeline system from the Niger Delta to all states of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to supply gas to all parts of Nigeria as source energy to industrial development. He called for the development of a minimum of 5000 hectares of agricultural plantations for the development of agriculture production agro-allied raw materials to serve as a source of raw materials to the private sector-driven industries to be established in the Industrial cities/estates.