Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja The Federal Government will not tolerate the misappropriation and mismanagement of forfeited assets. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Tuesday, the minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), issued the warning, and pledged that the Inter-Ministerial Committee On Disposal of Assets Forfeited to the Federal Government will discharge its duties judiciously to ensure transparency and accountability. Malami, represented at the press briefing by Solicitor General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, Dayo Apata (SAN), stated that it was for the reason that President Muhammadu Buhari directed Malami to coordinate the sale of assets forfeited to the federal government to ensure uniformity and transparency. Apata who spoke in his capacity as chairman of the Committee assured Nigerians, that the composition of the committee is broadly based and represents all relevant stakeholders. He said that “the committee remains highly committed to ensure a radical departure from the past by ensuring that government receives adequate value for forfeited assets and also to ensure that the assets are neither misappropriated nor mismanaged, but are dealt with for public good. “The eminent status and powers of the AGF in relation to criminal matters and operation of law enforcement agencies are well grounded under common law, the Constitution and enabling laws of the line agencies’’. READ ALSO: National Assembly has no Constitutional Power to invite Buhari – Malami He disclosed that the committee holds sacred the twin features of transparency and accountability paramount in the discharge of the national assignment of disposing assets forfeited to the Federal Government. “Accordingly, members have executed declaration of conflict of interest and non -disclosure forms, the first time in Nigeria” Akpata added. Apata further disclosed that the committee is working assiduously to complete its assignment within the six- month timeframe as spelt out in the presidential directive and is guided by the Asset Tracing, Recovery and Management Regulations, 2019, standard operating procedures and its terms of reference. Daily Times recalls that members of the committee on Tuesday went around Abuja to verify some of the forfeited property located in the city. The members headed by Apata, visited five locations where they identified such forfeited property to include house No. 6 Ethiope Close, Maitama; 19 Kumasi Crescent, Wuse 11; 14 Adzope Crescent, Wuse 11, and a 35-room hotel located at No. 001 Owu Falls Close, Amsco Platinum City, Abuja, Galadimawa, called The Platinum Residence Exquisite Luxury Accommodation. The committee also visited a facility behind the National Mosque, Abuja, housing hundreds of vehicles of different models.