Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo state has condemned the Shasha market crisis in Ibadan the capital of Oyo state. The governor has called for calm and as well asked the residents of the Shasha area to desist from taking law into their hand. He made it known that the southwest governors do not support violence in particular; jungle justice, unnecessary self help and brigandage. He commended the governor of Oyo state, Seyi Makinde for promptly putting the crisis under control, and imposing a curfew to prevent the crisis from escalating further. The governor noted that Sunday Igboho who is been accused of causing the violence in Oyo state is a child of circumstance, that the issues which led to each of the intervention in the state must be looked into and examined. The governor who is the chairman of the South West governor forum said there are things that people do sometimes, that people need to know what led to them. Governor Akeredolu made it known that there are some circumstances which may lead to people’s action which cannot be justifiable or legal but when look into again, we will all know that we are child of circumstance, this the governor believes this to have birthed the actions of Sunday Igboho. He added that he is strongly against illegality in any of the Southwest states and made it known that he disapproves of people taking laws into their hands, he said for this reason he is will to go to any of the Yoruba state to make this known to the people. Meanwhile, the former governor of Etiki state, Ayo Fayose also said Sunday Igboho shouldn’t be arrested as he is not the reason for the Shasha market crisis. READ ALSO: Akeredolu raises alarm over illegal immigrants in Nigeria He made it known that Sunday Igboho stood up at a time, when those who were capable of doing something about the Fulani herdsmen excesses in the Southwest states decided to fold their hands and watch. So much has happened in Oyo state after the action of Sunday Igboho evicting Fulani herdsmen from Ibaraba community in Oyo state. From the look of this many people seem to want Sunday Igboho to take the fall for it.