By Aherhoke Okioma Governor Douye Diri, on Monday, joined other key stakeholders to demand better Federal Government’s presence to fast track overall development of Bayelsa State. The stakeholders made the call during a special townhall meeting organised by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources in conjunction with the state government at the Chief Harold Dappa Biriye Conference Centre in Yenagoa. They called on the Federal Government to revisit the abandoned federal secretariat and housing projects among other federal infrastructure lacking in the state. In their presentation, Chairman of the Central Zone of the Ijaw Youth Council, Clever Inodu, and the council’s spokesman, Ebilade Ekerefe, stressed that constructive engagement of the youths was vital to sustaining the peace and security in the Niger Delta region. They said they were still awaiting the fulfilment of the Federal Government’s directive to the oil multinationals to relocation their operational headquarters from Lagos to the Niger Delta. Also, the pioneer Chairman of the state’s Traditional Rulers Council, King Joshua Igbugburu, elder statesman, Chief Thompson Okorotie, and the representative of the Civil Liberties Organisation, Chief Nengi James, expressed concern over the number of abandoned federal projects in the state. Responding, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, underscored the need for all to work to make Bayelsa State a peaceful and investment-friendly destination. He highlighted some ongoing federal projects to create job opportunities for youths in the state, naming the the Brass fertilizer plant, the Oil and Gas Industrial Park project at Ogbia, the Oloibiri Museum and the petrochemical plant in Polaku which he said were targeted intervention projects. The minister, who also assured that action would be taken on the Nembe-Brass Road, promised that all ongoing federal projects would be completed. Speaking, Gov. Diri while commending President Muhammadu Buhari for completing the 17-storey secretariat of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) in Yenagoa, tasked the Federal Government to prevail on the international oil companies to relocate their head offices to either Bayelsa State or other states in the region. According to him, “the relocation of such offices will further cement peace and attract investments to the region as there is no total peace anywhere in the country as shown by the #EndSARS disturbances.” The governor called for the approval of the license for the Bayelsa airport as well as the construction of the Nembe-Brass Road, which he described as strategic to the operations of the Brass Fertilizer Plant project. He harped on the need for collaboration between the state and federal governments to collectively pursue development efforts rather than politicising issues of development. “Let us move away from politics of deceit, bitterness, hatred and lawlessness. We should be mindful of what we are handing over to our next generation. Let us put aside our political differences and come together to work for the collective interests of our people,” Gov. Diri stated. The governor equally, commended the Federal Government for initiating such a meeting and emphasised the need to interface more with the people in order to avoid speculations and protests. He urged President Buhari to appoint a substantive minister for the Ministry of Petroleum Resources or elevate the serving minister of state, adding that the people would continue to agitate for a better deal from the centre, but through legitimate means. READ ALSO: Gov. Diri seeks better funding, welfare for military, security agencies “Let us have this paradigm shift from bitterness to development. Going forward this should be a model and not wait for a directive from Abuja before we meet to dispel rumours,” the governor added. Also, Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board, (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, said the board was playing a significant role in creating investment opportunities that provide employment for the people.