PHILIP CLEMENT, ABUJA The Nigerian Senate has confirmed the nomination of Bello Hassan as the new Managing Director/Chief Executive of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC). The Senate on Wednesday also confirmed Mr Mohammed Ibrahim as Executive Director (Operations) of the NDIC. Presenting the report on the screening of the nominees to the Plenary, Chairman of Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions, Sen. Uba Sani informed the Senate that his committee established that the two appointments were in accordance with Sections 54 and 83 of the NDIC Act No 16 of 2006 as amended. He said the committee also found out that both Hassan and Ibrahim possessed the required technical knowledge, academic qualifications and professional experience to serve as MD/CE and ED (OPs) of NDIC respectively. When the Senate President, Sen Ahmed Lawan, presented the nominations to the Committee of Whole for a vote, they were unanimously endorsed and consequently confirmed. President Muhammadu Buhari had on December 18 forwarded the two names Senate for screening and confirmation. Before his appointment as NDIC’s MD/CE, Hassan was the Director, Banking Supervision Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), a position to which he was appointed in February 2020. READ ALSO: Senate asks Foreign Affairs C’mttee to screen Olonisakin, Buratai, others for Ambassadorial appointments Prior to that, he served in the Operations Directorate and as Director, Other Financial Institutions Department of the Apex Bank. A seasoned and diligent bank examiner of over three decades, Bello joined the services of the CBN in 1990 after a stint with the Katsina State Ministry of At the CBN, Mr Hassan also represented the apex bank on the board of different flagship public Corporations including the NDIC, Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Financial Institutions Training Center (FITC), FMDQ Clear Ltd., and Governing Council of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). The new NDIC Boss was a 1988 B.Sc. (Hons) Accounting graduate from the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria. He also consolidated an academic career with a corresponding MBA from the same university in 2006; in addition to a Diploma in Business Continuity Management from Coventry University, UK. He is also a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria.