Popular Yoruba activist, Sunday Igboho Adeyemo has called on his supporters to stop attacking governors in the South-West region, saying all of them were in support of an independent Yoruba nation. Daily Times gathered that the freedom fighter stated this while speaking at a Yoruba nation rally held at the Nelson Mandela Freedom Park in Osogbo, Osun State. On why South-West governors could not openly back agitators, he said the Federal Government might stop their monthly allocation. Sunday Igboho, who spoke in Yoruba language, claimed that no elections would be allowed in Yorubaland in 2023. He said, “I can’t be cowed or intimidated. They said I would be arrested. Who would dare do that? We are no longer part of Nigeria. We won’t have anything to do with them again. There is no election again in Yorubaland until we have a Yoruba nation. Those in authority initially thought we were joking when we demanded an independent Yoruba nation. “All our governors are with us. From Oyo, Ogun and Ondo to Ekiti, Lagos and Osun, they are supporting us, but they can’t do it openly. Allocation they give them in Abuja may stop if they do it openly. READ ALSO: Buhari Breaks silence over son-in-law, Gimba Kumo wanted for $65m fraud So, don’t abuse them again. Governor (Gboyega) Oyetola was informed I will be in Osun and he allowed us to come here. All our monarchs are with us. “We are also demanding an immediate end to prosecution of OPC men that were arrested in Ibarapa land. That is part of the injustice we are talking about. They are still locked up. They didn’t commit any crime. They only stopped and arrested criminals. All the heads of the military, paramilitary and police are Fulani men. We won’t have anything to do with them again.” According to Igboho, lopsidedness in sharing leadership positions in the military and paramilitary, and high crime rate linked to Fulani herders across the region would not end until the Yoruba became an independent nation. He also demanded immediate action by all stakeholders in the region to actualise an independent Yoruba nation, saying if they acted otherwise, the people would revolt against them.