Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri has revealed how the virtue of love towards all, practiced by his mother, the late Mrs. Rose Diri, shaped his political philosophy of seeing nobody as his enemy. He spoke at Ayamasa, his maternal hometown, in Ekeremor Local Government during the eighth-year wreath-laying in honour of his mother. Madam Diri was born on May 15, 1939 and died on her birthday, 74 years later, on May 15, 2013. The governor in a statement yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, said his late mother was the perfect example of the woman and wife captured in Proverbs 31 in the Holy Bible. He described his mother as a woman that accommodated everyone that came across her while alive and never had any enemy. According to him, her lifestyle of living without enmity and grudge towards anyone impacted his life greatly. READ ALSO: DSS operatives clash with Sunday Igboho’s supporters in Ataoja’s palace He said: “My mother had no enemies. This is why as a governor; I don’t have enemies because I learned that from her. She was a woman that I can aptly say was described in Proverbs 31. Our mother was a mother to everybody. “From here in Ayamasa, she got married and moved with her husband to Sampou. Even in Sampou, she was a mother to everybody. Those who came across her can testify that she took everybody that she saw as my friend like her own child. “For those of us she left behind, the only thing I would say is to continue to maintain the standard she left for us.” Senator Diri, who bemoaned politics of bitterness and blackmail, hoped that his emergence as governor would change the narrative and heal political wounds. Deputy Governor Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo lamented the inability of churches and their leaders to speak truth to power in the face of increasing corruption and immorality in the society. He spoke at the weekend while addressing participants at the 145th National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of Catholic Laity Council of Nigeria, at St Mathias Parish, Amarata in Yenagoa. The deputy governor said the silence of the church was contributing to the rise in crime rate, leadership failure, erosion of ethical and moral values as well as underdevelopment. He said to address the rising level of moral decadence and poor performance in the public and corporate governance, the church must live up to societal expectation of speaking and upholding the truth at all times. Ewhrudjakpo urged the clergy not to be swayed by material gains to the detriment of the society by turning deaf ears and blind eyes to poor leadership and crime. He challenged clerics to be courageous to hold those in authority to account like Prophets Nathan, Isaiah and Jeremiah did in biblical times to address the societal ills of their generations. The deputy governor stressed the need for churches to show more interest in building the future of youths by inculcating in them sound moral and spiritual values that will guide them through life.