Alade Tasma, Lagos The Lagos State House of Assembly is set to stop the controversial pension for former governors of the state and their deputies. The bill to this effect was read for a second time on the floor at plenary on Monday, it seeks to repeal the law which grants pension and other emoluments to governors and deputies after leaving office. The new bill, titled; “A Bill for a law to repeal the law to provide for the payment of pensions and other fringe benefits to public office holders in Lagos State and for other connected matters” was extensively debated on the floor of the House at a sitting presided over by the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa. While debating the issue, the lawmakers argued it would be out of place to repeal the law in its entirety as there were some important sections and stipulations that should be considered. Making his contributions on the debate, Hon. Oluyinka Ogundimu (Agege 2), explained that the bill is meant to ensure the stoppage of pensions to governors and deputies when they leave office adding that this decision was in consideration of the country’s current economic challenges. The lawmaker however, submitted that the governors and their deputies as well as other political office holders should be made to enjoy some benefits no matter how little. He further argued that the bill should be amended in such a way that it would not throw former political officers to security challenges when the original law is finally repealed, this would mean withdrawing all security agents and domestic staff earlier attached to them. Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu (Eti-Osa 2), while affirming the power of parliament to make and review laws, especially where it includes one like the pension bill that was passed 14 years ago and needs to be looked at again. He said the objective of the bill as raised by the executive is to ensure that the state begins to look inward in relation to cost of governance. Yishawu added that by virtue of his position as chairman of the committee on economic planning and budget, he has had the opportunity to check the finances of the state and would say Lagos is not very rich, but only has people who effectively manage its resources. He however, agreed with the position canvassed by his colleague that the security of the lives of such political office holders when they leave office should be considered urging that the bill be committed to a committee. Hon. Rotimi Abiru (Shomolu 2), in expressing support for the new bill advocate for an amendment to the law instead of a repeal.“For a person who has served as chief executive of a state, I do not think it is nice denying them of their benefits. “I can appreciate that some of them move to other appointments. For these people, there can be a caveat. But for those who serve in that capacity and do not have any other thing to do after office, it may not be something elaborate, but something may be coming to them periodically,” Abiru stated. Hon. Tobun Abiodun (Epe 1) expressing his position on the new bill, explained that he does not subscribe to a total repeal of the law because it would give room to corruption in office. He canvassed for provisions to be made available to governors, deputies and possibly speakers after they leave office Expressing his view on the questions and suggestions raised by his colleagues, the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Obasa supported arguments that repealing the law in totality would expose former governors and deputies to security challenges. “I do not think we should trash it in totality,” Obasa submitted before committing the bill to the House Committee on Establishment with a two-week mandate for a report to be submitted.