Nigerian international, Kelechi Nwakali may switch allegiance to another country as the skillful attacking midfielder is hot on the trail of nations seeking his services. It is not known whether the country will be African or outside the continent. Kelechi, captained Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets to win the 2015 FIFA U17 World Cup in Chile and was snapped by Arsenal FC of England after a scintillating performance at the cadet World Cup but had his chance of playing in the English Premiership with the Gunners scuttled due to his non-appearance at the senior team. Following the British home office’s refusal to issue him work permit, the talented youngster move to Spain were he teamed up with SD Huesla. He was later loaned to AD Alcorcon in Spanish Segunda where he has been quite outstanding in this soccer season. Nwakali has been overlooked by the Nigeria national team handlers overtime despite his superlative form in the Spanish Segunda. Indication emerged recently of enquiries by agents of some foreign countries interested in giving opportunity to play in the senior national team. His brother Chief Allwell Nwakali, who confirmed the development to wakawaka sports extra,explained that said there are proposals from Africa and Europe countries seeking for the services of the player. ‘’ Some agents have approached Kelechi for a switch of allegiance so he would player for the national teams. Well, he has not given it a consideration but I know it his wish to play for the Super Eagles. Nigeria is in his heart. And for a player who wrote the name of Nigeria in global football through winning the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2015 as captain of the team. He is still studying the proposals and was yet to take a decision,’’ he said. Kelechi Nwakali has not been capped at the International level for the country after he scored a spectacular goal for the Super Eagles against Atletico Madrid in Uyo three years ago in International friendly match. Football lovers across the country have severally called for Kelechi’s invitation the Super Eagles to strengthen the midfield of the team but Coach Gernot Rohr and his technical crew prefers the service of players born in Europe for the position.