Nosa Akenzua, Asaba Former military President, Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB), has expressed his displeasure over the state of insecurity in the country. Also, former President Goodluck Jonathan has enjoined leaders not to oppress the governed. Babangida in an interview with the BBC Hausa Service on Sunday also stated that it was significant for citizens to support government and soldiers, for the crisis to come to an end. He challenged the government to equip the fighting soldiers with modern weapons and the necessary training, adding that it has become necessary for citizens and government to synergize and work together towards finding lasting solution to the insecurity challenge in the country. On whether politicians are playing the desired role in bringing an end to insecurity, he said there are many things they have to be put right. “if they agree to sit down and think over, I believe success will be achieved,” he said. When asked further on such things to put right, he said it was important to rally round the soldiers and other security agents, and let them know the citizens are behind them.“Provide them with all they require and let them know this is their country, they’ve no other better than this.” Asked if he believes the Nigerian soldiers need modern weapons, he said yes, they do. “They also need to be trained on how to use the modern weapons, not to get weapons and just hand over to them. They should be trained.” On whether he has ever advised the Federal Government on ways to end insecurity, which has now crept into his state of origin (Niger Stste), he said, “we give advice, as we can..but we don’t make noise about it. We don’t announce that this is what we say.” “We should unite, we should support those in power, we are all working towards achieving the same goal. Between the leaders and citizens, we need peace and a harmonious relationship. “This problem of insecurity, every government had its experience… but if we unite. I remember how we fought the civil war for 3 years, the people supported the government, the government did its best, bought what was necessary, those who fought were made to understand that this country is the best for them. “It’s not only in Nigeria, many countries encountered this kind of problem, some had it for ten years but through concerted effort, they are out of it. I believe we can get out of this problem. “Both citizens and those governing are trying, but we should know that it is not an easy task,” he said. On his part, Dr. Jonathan, on Sunday, advised leaders and the privileged in the society not to use their positions to oppress people. Jonathan gave the advice at a special thanksgiving service to celebrate the 50th birth anniversary of the General Overseer of Rock of Ages Christian Assembly International (RACAi), Pastor Charles Osazuwa, in Benin City. He stated that because positions were temporary, leaders must learn not to use the positions to punish people as they would only be remembered for the impact they made on the society. According to him, some of the things “I did while in office are still being talked about today, and I believe that any position I occupy should not be used to cause the death of anybody. “Any position I have occupied which were by divine providence, it was my belief that it should not be used to create hardship for the people,” he said. Jonathan commended Pastor Osazuwa for his accomplishments from a very humble beginning, saying “his profile reminds me of the humble beginnings of some of our church leaders and, even Christ. “Most great men of God came from very humble beginning and we are happy that Pastor Charles has impacted on the society at just 50”. At the service, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta, thanked God for the life of Pastor Osazuwa, and said that he was a man who always spoke truth to power and urged him not to relent. He noted that the Church would be instrumental to the solution of the current challenges bedeviling the nation and charged church leaders to speak up on the challenges. “I thank God that he is 50 and I know that the Lord has many more years for him in His vineyard. “He has impacted so many lives, including mine, and one good thing you enjoy here is that you have a man of God that preaches Christ and salvation and whenever he is with me that has always been his emphasis and I cherish it. “When you are in privileged position of authority you need people to remind you of your purpose in life as a Christian. “He speaks with the fear of God only and not the fear of man and I believe that all our church leaders should continue to speak in that manner. “It is important for us as church leaders to speak out bodly in the interest of the nation because the prophetic words that come from their mouth will also help to change this nation. “The problems that we have in the nation today will be solved through the church because the Lord will hear the prayers of the church,” Okowa stated. Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki described Osazuwa as a living legend who understood the role of God in modern society by linking current societal challenges with the Bible to give hope to the people. “We are celebrating a man of distinction, a man who is living with the tradition of pentecostality in Nigeria. “Pastor Osazuwa was one of those who looked up to our father, late Archbishop Benson Idahosa, and to the glory of God he has accomplished a lot at just 50,” Obaseki stated. Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa, who was represented by his Deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpor, urged church leaders to tell truth to people in authority and speak out, especially with the prevailing challenges in the nation. Earlier in his sermon titled “Thanking God in the third Dimension”, Pastor Osazuwa called on Christians to always remember what God did in their lives. He said that only those who remembered what God did in their lives would remember to give Him thanks. Quoting from the Bible, Osazuwa said God would destroy those who did not remember His works but would bless those who remembered and gave thanks. “Gratitude is what provokes God to be committed to our life and you can’t be grateful if you don’t have memory. “To be thankful, you need to remember and not to be grateful is to be forgetful,” the cleric said.