By Ukpono Ukpong The maiden edition of the Most Gorgeous Girl Nigeria (MGGN) beauty pageant has been flagged off. Addressing a press briefing in Abuja, the Chief Executive Officer of MGGN, miss Grace Ene, said her aim is to raise a formidable voice for the girl-child and making a meaningful impact for them through pageantry. She said that MGGN is a celebration of youth and empowerment, an important way to convey the true meaning of beauty and the empowerment of all women and girl-child. Speaking further, Ene disclosed that MGGN will provide an opportunity to demonstrate at a national and global level that there are no intercultural barriers, and that despite not speaking the same language, culture or tradition, noting that “we all speak the same language of life, respect and integrity through the pageantry”. “The girl-child deserves more in our community, there has been terrible conflict that separated families in our country. “Young girls want to be a whole lot of things, but they often let this dream fly away due to lack of mentorship, knowledge of women in such dream professions, enterprise or career paths and access to platforms that accelerates their growth. MGGN brings this to the table.” she said. READ ALSO: S’Court declares Gov Makinde’s dissolution of Oyo state LG illegal She said that the first edition would hold on October 29, with a unique process targeted at spotting young female stars with talents in a bid to accelerate their progress by providing mentorship. “We will toil day and night, and navigate the books and crannies of Nigeria to search for the next Most Gorgeous Girl in Nigeria and will stop at nothing to show the world the better side of our nation. “Our tagline which is “beauty redefined” captures our essence; letting go off impossible standards and teaching these young women to celebrate what they already have (flaws and all).” According to her, there is going to be a star prize of a car and cash prizes for the winner, first and second runner up. She added that there would metric for measuring success, adding that the success would be measured in what the finalists made of their lives. Ene said that 37 MGGN finalists would be selected, one from each state in the country and the FCT, adding that they would be in the academy for nine weeks before a winner emerged at the grand finale.