By Ukpono Ukpong An indigenous organisation under the auspices of APC Gbagyi Progressives Forum (GPF) has commended the national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for putting an end to the confusion surrounding the candidate for the AMAC chairmanship election coming up in February, 2022. It was announced yesterday that the national leadership of the APC has submitted the name of Hon. Murtala Usman Karshi to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the substantive candidate of AMAC as the flag bearer of the party in the coming council election. Comrade Yunusa Ahmadu Yusuf, Coordinator of the forum, in a press statement said that the decision of the party has proven that the decision of the people supersedes the desire of a few who do not care about the plight of the majority, but rather their own selfish interest. “We want to appeal to AMAC residents to know that the decision that the national leadership of the party has taken in respect to the genuine winner of the just concluded primary election, is the decision of the masses. So, we are calling on every resident of AMAC to support the decision and come out to work with us for the success of the party in the general election coming up in February 22, 2022. “It is worthy to note that it is extremely wrong and detrimental to residents of AMAC that the present leadership of the council led by Hon. Abdullahi Candido is trying to play Cheese game with the lives and future of AMAC residents, that is why he has gone to all extent in trying to impose an anointed candidate on the people of AMAC against their will. “A good example of such action can be drawn from the last press conference that AMAC had on the development of the decision of the national leadership of the party, where the incumbent Vice Chairman of the council, Mr. Lawrence Onuchukwu was the Speaker that address the press,” he said. According to Yusuf, inasmuch as they do not want to join issues with anybody, they want to know that rational behind Lawrence speaking for an aspirant of the party, that this is what they have been saying, that that they must save AMAC from the leadership of few against the many. “The press conference further justified what we have been saying. They have failed woefully, because they have an anointed candidate, even as incumbent, but a more popular candidate could out the weight to defeat them. The people who held the press conference should not be taken serious and the party should remain focus, because they have lost the grassroots politics, which is the main politics to enable us win elections. “Also, going by the magnitude of such press conference, Lawrence Onuchukwu should not have been the one to speak on the issue. He was not in the best capacity to speak for a candidate. It has only revealed the desperation of the Candido’s led executive to imposed a candidate against will of the people. This is what we have been against from day one. “If not so, why will an incumbent vice chairman come out to speak for a candidate of a party when he is not the Director-General of his campaign organisation? Moreover, he is still a vice actions, it is very clear that they are bent on holding residents of AMAC captive, after their tenure and to control the leadership of the council from their houses when they leave office soonest,” he said. The forum appealed to residents of AMAC that should not allow that to happen. “The era of the few so-called leaders having their ways against the people has past. This is the time for the people of AMAC to take their destiny in their hands and not allow the present Chairman and his desperate executives to succeed in their evil plot. “The national leadership of APC has done their investigations and have realized the true picture that was about to play out if it is not corrected immediately, that was why they have taken the decision in the interest of all AMAC residents. With this decision that the APC has taken, we are calling on all Nigerians, assuring them that gone are those days that the party used to have people who cannot manage and bring back justice to the party. “We are making it very clear that the APC has its leadership under Mai Mala Buni. So, Nigerians should be assured that the confidence of the party has been restored by this singular act of giving justice to the right person that deserves it. This has shown Nigerians that we all should have confidence in the party,” Yusuf expressed confidence that the party will emerge victorious in the general election because the most popular candidate has emerged to the glory of God. “Most people present at the primary election witnessed the irregularities that transpired, but we were not moved, because we believe in the party and we are confident that the party will never fail or disappoint the people of Abuja. Looking at the votes that were denied the original winner, a whole 9 votes! READ ALSO: British prime minister, Boris Johnson gets married to Carrie Symonds in a secret ceremony “The truth is that on normal circumstances, nobody will cancel 9 votes for a winning margin of 4 votes, if the person means well for the people. It is absurd! After due consultation with stakeholders, grassroots and community leaders, the party saw it clearly that the winner is Hon. Murtala Usman Karshi. “With this decision taken by the party, we are assuring the leadership of the party that the voice of the majority is bigger than the voice of a few. We are convinced that the decision of the party will salvage hindrance. We are also assuring the party that we will work very hard to bring residents of AMAC, both those that seem aggrieved to come together and work in the interest of the party. “If anybody says that because of this act of justice done to the people of AMAC, that he or she wants to leave the party, that means they are not true party faithful and never meant well for the party. “With this, we want to sincerely appreciate the national leadership of APC for putting the interest of the people of AMAC first against few desperate leaders, by ensuring that Hon. Murtala Karhi was given his stolen mandate. We will continue to trust in the party and ensure victory of the party at all times,” he said.