The Imo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has demanded for the immediate impeachment of Governor Hope Uzodinma, accusing him of being complacent over the increasing insecurity in the State. The opposition party spoke through its Director General of New Media, Collins Opuruzor. The party accused the governor of having no regard to human lives, because according to it, the governor has refused to proffer a lasting solution to the extra judicial killings in the State. The PDP spokesman, in his write up, said the governor prefers finding comfort in Abuja while his state is on fire. He said, “the primary purpose of government is the security of life and property. In this aspect, the governor has failed woefully and that’s why the state is in ruins. READ ALSO: No UK Visa for election riggers in 2023— British High Commissioner “Unfortunately, our lawmaking body seems to have been pocketed. They are now acting according to the governor’s directives. This is an anomaly. “The comical claim by Governor Uzodinma that the opposition is behind the insecurity in the state has further defined him as totally at a loss with what governance is, and has unmasked him as a huge threat to the peace and security of the state. “In Imo, each day brings a new sorrow. Hardly does a night pass without fire and fury pouring down in Owerri and its environs. The people are living in fear of the unknown and the Governor does not give a damn. “He rather finds comfort in Abuja leaving his state in devastation. This early morning, he jetted back to his base (Abuja). Tell me what effort he put up within these few days he was in Imo, nothing. “But this is absolutely not right. How can a Governor whose state is on fire be running to Abuja every two days to seek refuge? “Frankly, Governor Uzodinma has proven that he is incompetent to govern the state, and should be shown the way out. “I call on the Imo State House of Assembly to, as a matter of urgency, initiate a move towards impeaching the governor or all of us will die here over insecurity.”