The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council, OYC, on Friday, claimed that it has uncovered those behind the plot to punish Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka of the Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Nigeria, AMEN. DAILY POST recalls that there was heavy protest in Enugu by Mbaka’s followers on Wednesday following his reported disappearance. He later reappeared and said he was serving a punishment placed on him by the Catholic Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Bishop Calistus Onaga. In a statement made available to journalists, the OYC President-General, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike claimed that apart from undue pressure from the Federal Government, certain personalities, including two governors from the Southeast contributed to Mbaka’s ordeal. READ ALSO: JUST IN: 11 members of IPOB’s ESN killed in Imo –Army Okwu claimed that those involved included a prominent politician from Oji River, who used to be Mbaka’s close friend, a close relation of the Cleric, a woman from Abia State, simply identified as Princess, one of his former aides, among others. He, however, said the youths and millions of the downtrodden in Nigeria, who Mbaka represents, would not take it lightly should anything untoward befalls the priest. “We are saying this because from our enquiries, there is a serious hang-up against the person of Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka. READ ALSO: JUST IN: 11 members of IPOB’s ESN killed in Imo –Army More worrisome is the fact that those spearheading these are people who have in so many ways benefited from his benevolence, including a former governorship candidate in Enugu State, Mbaka’s own brother and one Princess from Abia State. “These four persons are the engine room behind what is happening to Fr. Mbaka and their target is the assets belonging to the Adoration Ministry. They already have the blessings of two Southeast governors to make sure that Mbaka is chased out of circulation. “It is also sad that Bishop Onaga and the Catholic Nuncio to Nigeria and some vicars are part of this selfish game. Where were they all the while that Fr. Mbaka had been releasing a series of prophecies? How come they are so peesed off this time if not that they are under certain influence? How come that Bishop Kukah who has said more things about the current Government has not been punished? “We have no doubt in our mind that the church authority is dancing to a music being played by the Federal Government. “But we warn that enough is enough. Every form of punishment or ban on Mbaka should be lifted forthwith. May we also State that should anything happen to him, we know those to hold responsible. “He represents millions of voiceless and defenseless people across the country. So, nothing must happen to him,” the group warned.