*Another killed as robbers attack gas station *Parishioners murdered in Nasarawa Nosa Akenzua, Asaba, Augustine Kuza, Lafia and ‘Tosin Ajuwon, Akure. Hoodlums went on the rampage in Aniocha South Local Government Area of Delta State in the early hours of Sunday and set ablaze Nsukwa Divisional Police Station, leaving three officers dead in the process. Although, unconfirmed sources said that the burning of the police station was the handiwork of unknown gunmen who had few weeks earlier allegedly threatened to wreak havoc in Delta State, the Police Commissioner in the State, Mr Ari Muhammad Ali in a swift reaction assured that the burning of the police station will be properly investigated with a view to arresting those behind the nefarious act especially in the alleged killing of three policemen at the station. CP Ari Muhammad Ali who refused to confirm the killing of the three policemen said “We are still investigating the incident and we shall come out with details of the incident. We hereby confirm that Nsukwa Police Division was set ablaze around 1am on Sunday and we are investigating the incident with a view to arresting those behind the nefarious activities. “We are yet to know if our officers were killed or not and until we are done with our investigation nothing to say much about the incident as it was rather unfortunate.” Sources said that the hoodlums stormed the Police Division at about 1am with AK-47 rifles and allegedly started shooting at the policemen on duty, an unfortunate situation as three policemen found could not escape from the scene like their colleagues in the heat of the gun battle. It was gathered that Nsukwa Community with large hectares of oil mill farm lands had been under siege being perpetrated by suspected Fulani herdsmen including unidentified hoodlums who allegedly had also killed some persons said to be farmers in the area and rape of many housewives in the community. Residents of the community who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity alleged that killings have been perpetrated by suspected Fulani herdsmen within the area, adding that the police have done nothing to help the situation and however called on the state government to come to their rescue. As at the time of filing this report, there was palpable tension and fear of the unknown in the community with residents staying indoors, while mobile policemen have flooded the entire community to maintain law and order and prevent further attack. Meanwhile in Nasarawa State, unknown attackers suspected to be herdsmen have murdered a Catholic parishioner, Catechist Sydney Shirsha and two others in Amudu community, Keana Local Government Area of the state. The suspects reported to be armed with sophisticated weapons invaded Amudu village dominated by people of Tiv extraction and killed a Catechist who was preparing to retire for the day and two others in the midnight attack. The attack which left several others with degrees of gunshot and injuries also displaced not fewer than 20,000 inhabitants from various villages within and outside some local government areas deserted for the fear of being attacked. President, Tiv Development Association (TIDA), in Nasarawa State, Comrade Peter Ahemba, while briefing Journalist in Lafia, the state capital yesterday, described the situation as unfortunate, regretted that the Tiv people of the state have remained under sustained attacks by armed herders for a reason not known to them. “The killing and displacement of the Tiv people of the state in the coordinated attacks have continued unabated since the first attack on Ajimaka community of Doma Local Government that led to the gruesome murder of nine persons about a month ago” Ahemba called on Governor Abdullahi Sule to save the Tiv people in the state from attacks stating that his kindred were being chased out of Nasarawa State and the seemingly planned elimination of the Tiv community succeed under his watch. “We acknowledge and appreciate the efforts of the state government towards restoring peace in the affected areas and we as law abiding citizens shall continue to count on c for protection of our lives and property. It is unfortunate now that government is making frantic efforts to restore peace, the attackers and their collaborators are ensuring that the Tiv community is completely wipe out of the state” The Nasarawa Tiv leader also appealed to the state government to beef up security around the Internally Displaced Persons Camps, alleging that there are threats of more attacks on Tiv villages and IDP camps in the affected areas. While appreciating traditional rulers in the affected local governments for accommodating many of the displaced Tiv persons in their personal homes and public facilities, the TIDA President equally acknowledged their untiring efforts towards complimenting government’s quest for peace and security. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer Nasarawa State Command, ASP Ramhan Nansel said the Command was yet to receive official report on the attack. According to him all the divisional officers (DPO) denied having knowledge of attack in the area. IN Ondo State, one person was feared dead at the weekend when some gunmen suspected to be armed robbers attacked a gas station in Akure, the state capital. The robbers numbering about four were said to have stormed the station, Damorotex Oil and petrol station, located on Oda road of the state capital, on two motorcycles. Several witnesses who gave an account of the frightening event said the armed robbers shot sporadically into the air to scared away customers before gaining entry into the gas station. One of the witnesses who spoke under the condition of anonymity told journalists that the hoodlums entered into the manager’s office and carted away an undisclosed amount of money before finding their way to the gas station. He explained that the fire from the gunshots injured no fewer than two persons who are customers buying fuel from the gas stations. One of the fuel attendants in the gas station confirmed that the hoodlums shot one person who was trying to escape from the robbery scene. She, however, refused to disclose the amount of money stolen from the gas station adding that the station has been shut down. Tee Leo Ikoro, the Police Public Relations Officer in Ondo State who confirmed the robbery incident said the detectives from the police command have started an investigation into the crime already. Mr. Ikoro added that the suspects would soon be arrested and brought to book and advised residents to be vigilant mostly at night.