*Urges IGP to question, place ruling party’s leaders on watchlist Tunde Opalana, Abuja Standing on its earlier assertion, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday insisted that the All Progressives Congress (APC) was behind the burning of offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in various parts of the country. The PDP restated its position that the APC has been promoting acts of violence including burning of INEC offices in other to build up an emergency situation and frustrate the smooth conduct of the 2023 general elections. “It is despicable that having realized that it has no place in the 2023 election, given its abysmal failure in governance, APC leaders are seeking to set our country ablaze and truncate our hard-earned democracy”, the party claimed. National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan made the party’s position known in a statement issued in Abuja. The PDP called the attention of Nigerians to the failure of the APC and its leaders to forcefully condemn the assault on frontline democratic institution, adding that the APC administration has failed to take decisive steps to protect INEC facilities from assailants. “Our party wants the APC to know that May 29, 2023 date is sacrosanct for it to leave office, free our nation from its stranglehold and fizzle out from our political firmament. “Indeed, history will not be kind to APC and its leaders given the magnitude of atrocities they have committed against Nigerians in a space of six years. “The APC has destroyed our nation, opened our dear fatherland to bandits and terrorists, turned our nation into an expansive killing field and a large funeral palour. “APC has wrecked our economy, opened our national vaults to its leaders to pillage over N15 trillion naira and reduced our once thriving country to a beggar nation while mortgaging our future with humongous foreign debts,” the statement read. The party, therefore called on the Inspector General of Police to immediately invite and question APC leaders over the burning of INEC offices. The PDP said “Nigerians also expect the police to immediately place APC leaders and their thugs on watch list as a firm step to guarantee the security of INEC facilities and other institutions of democracy in the country.” It, however, called on Nigerians, across board, to remain at alert and unite in prayers so that the nation survives the next two years under the “vindictive, insensitive, incompetent, treasury looting, divisive and violent APC and its administration”. This is admonished Nigerians not to be deterred by the actions of the APC but to remain united in rallying in the defense of democracy to rescue the nation from the misrule of the APC.