*Begs Nigerians to show more understanding on insecurity President Muhammadu Buhari has assured that his administration will use all available resources and manpower in dealing with bandits to ensure access to farms and food production in the coming growing season. The President, according to a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, made the call in a chat with State House correspondents shortly after observing the Eid-il-Fitr prayers at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, marking the end of the month-long Ramadan fast, on Thursday. According to him, the menace of bandits and kidnappers will be addressed to ensure that the nation’s food security is not threatened. The President, who hoped for a good rainy season this year, said “the law enforcement agencies are working hard to regain confidence against bandits, so that we can go back to the land. “This is very important. This is what the agencies are busy doing right now. We want people to go back to the land so that we can get enough food for the country and even export.” While explaining ongoing efforts to tackle the security situation in the country by the administration, Buhari drew attention to the series of long meetings held in recent weeks, chaired by him, saying that a part of resolutions had been made public by the National Security Adviser and the others kept secret. “With the resources and manpower available to us, we are working very hard. “We are hoping Nigerians will understand the problem. Nigerians know at what stage we came in in 2015, what state we are today both on security and the economy and we are doing our best,” he said. The president commended the National Assembly for its support, saying that “the National Assembly is cooperating very well. Within the resources available, they are certainly giving us priority on our (military) requests.” He, however, appealed to the nation’s elite to show a better appreciation of the problems facing the country. “The elite should make the attempt to understand the military. If we order for weapons and armored vehicles, it takes time for the manufacturers. “It takes time to ship them and when brought here eventually, they are taken to training institutions, train the trainers before sending them to the field.This is a very long process,” he explained. The President also appealed to Nigerians to show more understanding on the current security situation in the country. He also urged the Nigerian elite to show a better appreciation of the problems facing the country. Buhari has been under increasing pressure from Nigerians to find a lasting solution to the country’s worst security challenges since independence. He said: “I expect Nigerians to be more understanding on the issues involved, looking at the time and available resources. “For example, when we came in, in the North-East, ask people in Adamawa and Borno States and the South-South in terms of security. “Without security, you can’t do anything. Our big surprise and disappointment is what is happening in the North West and we are dealing with it. “The elite should make the attempt to understand the military. If we order weapons and armored vehicles, it takes time for the manufacturer. “It takes time to ship them and when brought here eventually, they are taken to training institutions, train the trainers before sending them to the field. This is a very long process.” President Buhari assured Nigerians that his administration would use all available resources and manpower in dealing with bandits and other criminals wreaking havoc in many parts of the country.