Doosuur Iwambe, Abuja The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, (JAMB) has cautioned against the activities of some criminal elements recruiting invigilators on behalf of the Board for the 2021 UTME/DE. Fabian Benjamin, Head, Public Affairs JAMB in a press release on Friday warned candidates to be wary of the syndicates who according to him were requesting for the payment of acceptance fee of N5,000. The board while emphasising that it dis not recruit any invigilator or official in that capacity added that the term “invigilator” is alien to the operations. It advised the general public to be wary of anybody purporting to be acting on its behalf. The statement read; “The attention of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has been drawn to the activities of criminal elements who claim to be recruiting invigilators on behalf of the Board for the 2021 UTME/DE while also requesting the payment of acceptance fee of N5,000 payable to the syndicate. “The Board wishes to state unequivocally that it is not recruiting any invigilator or any official in that capacity for that matter. In fact, it should be noted that even the term “invigilator” is alien to the Board’s operations and advises the general public to be wary of anybody purporting to be acting on its behalf. “The Board also wishes to reiterate that if for any reason the Board wishes to recruit permanent or ad-hoc staff such as invigilators or any other officials, it has in place, a transparent and foolproof process for doing so. “This notice is to ensure that the public is not hoodwinked into parting with their hard-earned resources on the premise of securing non-existing jobs with JAMB. “Consequently, the Board urges the general public not to fall prey to the antics of these fraudulent elements as the Board has not authorized any person or group of persons to act on its behalf for any business including recruitment. “The Board will also appreciate it if such persons are reported to security agencies to ensure that our society is cleansed of unwholesome characters and cheats. “It should also be noted that owing to the nature of the Board’s operations, many dubious individuals have cultivated the habit of placing different kinds of advertorials for one service or another in the name of the Board without authorization. “Therefore, to ensure that the public is not misled, the Board has provided several platforms for the public to verify any information purported to have been released by the Board”.