**Party okays non-career ambassadors as NEC members TOM OKPE, ABUJA The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said it recorded over 40 million registered members in the just concluded registration and revalidation membership exercise. The party said this was an increase over the previous 12 million members it had before the exercise. The Secretary of the Caretaker/ExtraOrdinary Convention planning Committee (CECPC), John Akpanudoedehe, stated this on Monday at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja while receiving 11 APC non-career ambassadors. He said, “We are blessed to have a focused gentleman as our Chairman. When he came on board, we lost our ground. “Under his leadership we have regained what we lost and gained more. We had membership strength of 12 million. “I want to inform you your Excellencies that, under his leadership the APC has moved to over 40 something million today. “Since the creation of this party, we have never enjoyed peace and tranquility that we are enjoying today. “He has brought in some kind of calmness. We are blessed to have him. He is accessible. He read your speech before you came and he granted everything you requested.” The ambassadors had requested that the party create a desk office to be dealing with non-career ambassadors at various duty posts. They also urged the CECPC to ensure that disputes in the state chapters were amicably resolved to the satisfaction of all parties concerned and add them as members of NEC. The CECPC Chairman and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, in the approval conveyed to the ambassadors, however, requested further details from the ambassadors. He said, “I am happy to inform you that the party has agreed to set up a desk office for the purpose of liaising with the non-career ambassadors. “In this regard, we requested you furnish the National secretariat with the details of your coordinating secretariat. “In similar vein, the Caretaker has approved your request to attend the National convention as members,” assuring them of the party’s support and cooperation at all times.” In his earlier remarks, spokesman of the group and ambassador-designate to Zambia, Ominyi Nwannebuike, commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the CECPC for finding them worthy to serve the nation at this critical period. He said, “As party chieftains in our respective domains and now as body of non-career Ambassadors, this is a job, we take so seriously and we are here to further express our profound appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari and to our dear party, the APC. “We are here to inform you that, haven been confirmed by the Senate, we have further been issued with our respective letters of credence to herald departure to different countries of our primary assignment. “We are poised to further contribute to the good governance which our party is providing through our President. Despite the difficult times occasioned by global economic challenges, Mr. President is breaking new grounds in the provision of infrastructure that the country had lacked. “As a progressive family, we shall remain committed to the party and undoubted to its manifesto in spite of all challenges and shall continue to lend support to the party leadership so that our election shall be the easiest within the political history of Nigeria. “We believe as a progressive family, our ability to discharge our duties will contribute to our collective aspirations in building strong bond between Nigeria and members of the International Community.”