*Determined to recover 26 oil wells worth over N8bn monthly *His exit regrettable, but not surprising, says C’River PDP Tunde Opalana, Abuja It has been revealed that Governor Ben Ayade took the hard decision of dumping the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) last Thursday to redress what he described as unconscionable injustice leading to the loss of littoral state status by Cross River. Contrary to widely held belief that his defection is more of politics, it was gathered that he took the political plunge for economic reasons. Speaking on why he was joining the APC, Ayade attributed it to the realisation that Cross River, which has been emasculated economically following the ceding of its oil wells, needed to be aligned with the party at the center, as main reasons for his decision. He, though on the other hand said, he wants to join the political mainstream to find solution to Nigeria’s problems, saying “I believe that if everyone of us as governor, joins hands with Mr President, I think we can sit on the same dining table and fashion out a way to govern this country.” The governor who is serving a second term on the ticket of the PDP undoubtedly took the step to save the state from economic hardship having weighed the option of staying put in PDP or trading the party membership for what he think would be the economic emancipation of the state. Ayade, it was revealed, bargained with President Muhammadu Buhari and APC leadership to return at least 26 out of the 72 oil wells taken from the state back. With the deal, Ayade expected that from the 26 oil wells the state stands a chance of reaping a 13 percent oil derivation revenue of between N8 billion and N9 billion monthly. Should the APC – led Federal Government keep its own side of the bargain, Cross River will soon join the league of big-earning states. Authentic data from the Federal Ministry of Finance revealed that Delta and Akwa Ibom states lead others in gross revenue earnings from the Federal Allocation in 2020. The data showed that while Delta received 186.83 billion naira, Akwa Ibom got 146.27 billion naira. On the other hand, Rivers received 141.19 billion naira as Bayelsa got 116.4 billion naira. Lagos, Nigeria’s economic capital, got 115.93 billion naira, making it one of the top five states to get the highest allocations in 2020. These states received about 31 percent of the total allocation and were also beneficiaries of the 13 percent derivation of oil-producing states. The data further revealed that approximately 30 percent (682 billion naira) of the allocated funds was directed to the six states in South-South: Delta- 186. 83 billion naira; Akwa Ibom- 146.27 billion naira; Rivers- 141.19 billion naira; Bayelsa- 116.4 billion naira; Edo- 58.41 billion naira; and Cross River- 32.89 billion naira. A reliable source told The Daily Times that the APC caved in to Ayade’s negotiating power because of the desire of making an inroad into the South-South region after painfully losing Bayelsa State which it won in November 2019 to Supreme Court judgement in 2020 and also losing Edo to the PDP in 2020. The Daily Times recall that in 2002, double tragedy befell Cross River State with the ceding of the 72 oil wells to neighbouring Akwa Ibom State by the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission and the ceding of Bakasi Peninsula to a neighbouring country, Cameroon. The Supreme Court further compounded the woes of the state when in 2012, it upheld the decision of RMAFC to cede the 72 oil wells to Akwa Ibom. The state has since been agitating for compensation from the Federal Government through the Stabilisation Fund as ruled by the Supreme Court judgement which emphasised that Cross River must continue to enjoy stabilisation support in perpetuity for the loss of its oil wells but the financial succour has since been stopped In one of his several lamentations of the seeming injustice, Ayade said “we have lost our oil wells, the N500 million per month as agreed is not coming, the N15 billion every two years is not coming. “I am shocked that this country is watching what is happening to this state. We are not part of the 13 per cent derivation, we are like a weeping child in NDDC, we have no say because it is on the basis of the quantum of oil produced that NDDC allocates projects. “We have just been reduced to want in body, in spirit, in soul and in our finances.” Gov. Ayade had on Thursday after a meeting with some APC leaders including six state governors at the state Executive Chamber in Calabar denounced his membership of the PDP, a and announced his desire to join the APC. Aside the six APC governors who were in attendance at the historic declaration, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Slyva who our source said was part of the deal between the APC leaders and Ayade, was also present. The Cross River State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) regretted losing the state governor, Ayade to the APC. Addressing newsmen in Abuja on Friday, a stalwart of the party and former governor of Cross River, Liyel Imoke said by ditching the PDP, a party that has given him political fame, Ayade has disappointed the people of Cross River State. “We understand that the people of Cross River State who have stood firmly with the PDP since 1999 and other lovers of Cross River state are deeply disappointed by this move made by a governor who has won all his elections under the platform of the party,” he said. The PDP, however said the governor’s action was not coming as a surprise because Ayade had distanced himself from party activities and at different fora said he was sitting on the fence. Imoke said the Cross River PDP stakeholders join the national leadership of the party to wish the governor well in his new found adventure. Rather than polarising the party, he said Ayade’s exit will pave way for re- strategis ing and repositioning the party for electoral future. His words: “given the overwhelming support which he enjoyed under the PDP and the fact that PDP has undeniable strong grassroots in the state, we affirm that Cross River state remains a PDP state. “An overwhelming majority of Cross River State people are PDP members. Our key stakeholders, members of the National and State Assemblies and Strategic grass root mobilizers are still members of our great party. We as a party therefore remain virile and strong. Our shell remains un- cracked. The leadership of Cross River state under the aegis of PDP since 1999 has led the state to a pedigree of progression and seen to the attainment of all the lofty achievements the state has been known for. “Hence, the events of the last 24 hours in our State avail us an opportunity to re- strategize and realign ourselves with the sustaining of PDP in Cross River state which was characterized by a trajectory of growth and development geared towards the path of greatness” The party therefore, enjoined people of Cross River and the teeming members of PDP in the state not to falter in the faith they have in the party. “While the current events may seem to present a glitch to the progress of the state, we hereby affirm our unwavering commitment towards serving the interest of the good people of Cross River state as we strongly believe that Cross River state shall be great again”, he said. Speaking on behalf of the Cross River State National Assembly Caucus, Senator Geshim Bassey said the caucus is intact and see no reason why any of them should jump ship with Ayade. He said “I don’t see what attraction will come to us from any other party. We were not contacted before making his move and we are not part of it.” The lawmakers said Ayade’s main reason for joining APC goes beyond his excuse of wanting to join President Muhammadu Buhari in dealing with the insecurity situation in the southern part of the country. Present at the press briefing were; Senator Geshim Bassey, and Senator Sandy Onor while House of Representatives members from Cross River in attendance include ; Hon. Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe, Hon. Daniel Asuquo and Hon. Bassey Ekpo as well Mrs. Divine Anong, Deputy National Auditor of the PDP. Other stakeholders in attendance were; Jetty Agbin, Anna Enegbeni, Daye Arikpo, Barr. Asuquo Eke, Chris Ngora and Etta Mbora. In a swift reaction to stabilise the party in the state, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on behalf of the National Executive Committee (NEC), on Friday approved the dissolution of the State Caretaker Committee for the Cross River State chapter of the party The decision was taken in pursuant to the powers conferred on the NWC by the PDP Constitution. Consequently, the NWC immediately constituted a new State Caretaker Committee to pilot the affairs of the chapter of the party at the state levelThe members of the new State Caretaker Committee for Cross River state are; Barr. Efiok Cobham (Chairman), Barr. Attah Ochinke, Dr. Uke Enun, Prof. Walter Mboto, Hon. Rita Ayim (Publicity Secretary), Hon. Mike Usibe, Hon. Christopher Ekpo, Mr. Victor Effiom Okon Prince K.J. Agba and Hon. Eko Atu (Secretary). The PDP maintained that all other structure of the party at the local government and ward levels in the state remain intact.